2026 ITUC
GLOBAL RIGHTS
INDEX T HE WORLD’S WORS T
COUN T RIES FOR
WORKERS

CONTENTS

FOREWORD 4
GLOBAL TRENDS FOR WORKERS 9
AT A GLANCE 1 4
THE 2026 RATINGS 1 6
THE WORST REGION IN THE WORLD 2 7
THE 10 WORST COUNTRIES FOR WORKERS 3 9
MOST VIOLATED RIGHTS IN THE WORLD 5 0
THE GLOBAL RIGHTS INDEX EXPLAINED 68
DESCRIPTION OF THE RATINGS 6 9
LIST OF INDICATORS 7 0
FOREWORD

This is the 13th edition of the ITUC Global Rights Index, the only comprehensive,
global annual survey of the violation of workers’ rights.

This year’s Index underscores the mounting challenges facing a global labour
movement that exists to protect the rights and interests of ordinary working
people against the regressive policies of governments and businesses.

Among the most shocking data points in 2026 are a five-percentage-point rise
in violations of free speech and assembly over the past year, a six-percentagepoint
rise in violent attacks against workers, and a three-percentage-point rise
in attacks on civil liberties, including a dramatic rise in the number of arrests
and detentions of workers and their representatives. The sharp spike in these
indicators signals that the persecution of trade union leaders is becoming
commonplace in an ever-growing number of countries.

Increasingly, we see new technology being deployed as a method of control,
used to monitor, discipline and silence workers. We also see fewer governments
consulting unions in good faith before amending or introducing labour laws.

In Europe and the Americas, workers’ rights are suffering an alarming decline.
Both regions registered their worst average country rating since the Index
began in 2014, and the increasing influence of the far right is putting workers
and unions at risk in countries such as Argentina and France – two out of four
countries to be downgraded in 2026.

This year’s results reinforce the ITUC’s view that we are witnessing a global
erosion of democratic principles – a “billionaire coup against democracy” –
funded by the rich and delivered by far-right and authoritarian leaders. As
profits are hoarded and taxes on wealth fail to materialise, the coup results
in worsening living standards. The voices of working people – which should
underpin democracy – are stifled, and there is a further concentration of wealth
and power in the hands of the few who undermine it.

As a snapshot of the violations of workers’ rights, the 2026 Index exposes a
pattern that the powerful would rather keep hidden: the systematic weakening
of democracy through attacks on workers, unions and collective bargaining.
From repression of strikes to the erosion of legal protections and the
criminalisation of unions, these are not isolated incidents but part of a broader
strategy to silence dissent and entrench inequality.

2026 ITUC GLOBAL RIGHTS INDEX 4
FOREWORD 5

Unionists in Nigeria face arbitrary
detention, raids on their offices
and an ongoing assault on their
independence, marking the country
as one of the 10 worst countries in
the world for working people.
The labour movement remains the world’s largest democratic force,
built on collective action and solidarity. At a time when democratic
institutions are under sustained pressure, unions are not only
defending rights at work but also safeguarding democracy itself. By
organising, bargaining and campaigning together, working people
have the power to reverse this erosion of rights and freedoms – and
to build a more just, inclusive and democratic future for all.

Photo:

NLC

5
2026 ITUC GLOBAL RIGHTS INDEX 6

In 2026:

Attacks on the rights to free speech and assembly
were reported in 50% of countries – a record high for
the Index and an increase from 45% in 2025. During
nationwide protests in Indonesia, over 4,000 protesters
in multiple cities were detained and almost 1,000

charged for their participation in demonstrations. Trade
union federations in Togo called for a general assembly
in Lomé, but the assembly could not take place due to
direct interference by the authorities.

Authorities in 75 countries (50%) arrested or detained
workers, a record high and up from 71 in 2025. In
the Democratic Republic of the Congo, President of
the Intersyndicale de l’Office national des transports,
Armand Osase, was arrested for demanding back pay
for employees and managers at the national transport
office (Société Commerciale des Transports et des Ports
- SCTP). In Iraq, police arrested three demonstrators
during a protest outside the Basra Oil Company where
workers demanded permanent employment.

The right to the legal registration of unions was
impeded in 75% of countries, up from 74% in 2025
and the highest level since the Index began. In the
private sector in Costa Rica, forming a union has
become virtually impossible as the authorities hold
full discretion on registration. In Namibia, the Labour
Commissioner refused to register the Public Service
Union of Namibia (PSUN) as a representative of all
workers as stipulated in its constitution.

Workers suffered violence in 32% of countries, up
from 26% in 2025. Israeli forces raided the offices of
the Palestinian General Federation of Trade Unions
(PGFTU) in Nablus. The rise of the far right in Europe
has increasingly translated into hostility directed at
trade unions and their members.

The right to strike was violated in 87% of countries
– unchanged from the Index high of 131 countries
reported in 2025 and 2024. Migrant construction

workers in Saudi Arabia were detained after protesting
against the Masar (Mecca) project, as they had not been
paid for months. Governments in Europe and South
America are increasingly seeking to restrict the right
to strike through the criminalisation of protest-related
disruption to traffic during protests.

Workers had no or reduced access to justice in 72%
of countries, unchanged from the peak reached in
2025. In Cambodia, global sportswear giant ASICS’s
supplier Wing Star Shoes fabricated criminal charges
against union leader Chea Chan. Ali Mammeri,

President of the Syndicat national des fonctionnaires
du secteur de la culture et des arts (SNFC) in Algeria,
was arrested without a warrant and reported being

beaten and forcibly undressed in an attempt to extract
a confession.

The right to collective bargaining was restricted
in 80% of countries (121), unchanged from 2025.
In Germany, Adidas left a collective bargaining
agreement by downgrading its membership in the
Federal Association of the German Footwear and

Leather Goods Industry, thus avoiding being bound by
collective bargaining obligations. Multinational Fyffes
declined to sign a collective agreement in Honduras
despite years of organising by seasonal fruit workers.

Workers in three out of every four countries were
denied the right to freedom of association and to
establish or join a trade union, unchanged from

A woman was treated after being hit with pepper spray during a
“Workers Against Billionaires” protest in Los Angeles. The United
States has seen a marked escalation in attacks on workers’ rights.

Photo: Benjamin Hanson / Middle East Images via AFP
FOREWORD 7

2025. Iranian authorities intensified a crackdown

against Kurdish teachers for their trade union activities.
In Haiti, the management of Brana-Heineken attacked
union freedoms through the harassment, intimidation
and persecution of union leaders.

Trade unionists and workers were killed in Angola,
Colombia, Indonesia and Mexico.

The 10 worst countries for workers in 2026 were:
Argentina, Belarus, Ecuador, Egypt, Eswatini,
Myanmar, Nigeria, Panama, Tunisia, and Türkiye.

The ratings of four countries worsened: Albania,
Argentina, France, and Panama. Three countries

improved their ratings: Botswana, the United Kingdom
and Uruguay.

Seven countries have been placed on the “Watchlist”
following a measurable increase in violations: GuineaBissau,
Israel, Liberia, the Philippines, the Republic of
Moldova, the United States, and Zimbabwe.

Conditions deteriorate
in two regions

Conditions for workers and unions at the regional level
remain extremely challenging, with the ratings for two
of the five global regions deteriorating in the past year.
Europe and the Americas recorded their worst average
ratings since the Index began in 2014.

The Middle East and North Africa remained ranked
as the worst region for workers’ rights, with an average
country rating of 4.68, unchanged from 2025. All 19
countries in the region violated the rights to collective
bargaining, to form or join a union, and to register a
union.

Asia-Pacific scored an average rating of 4.08, the same
as in 2025. Workers were exposed to violence in almost
half of the 23 countries in the region, while there was
a rise in the number of countries arbitrarily arresting
unionists.

Africa improved marginally to 3.91 from 3.95 in 2025.
Almost all of the 43 countries in the region violated the
rights to strike, collective bargaining, and to form or join
a union.

The average country rating in the Americas hit its

weakest since the Index began, worsening to 3.72 from
3.68 in 2025. Argentina and Panama entered the list of
the 10 worst countries in the world for workers’ rights.

Europe continued to decline. The average national
rating deteriorated to an Index low of 2.80 compared
to 2.78 in the previous year. Workers in nearly threequarters
of the 41 countries in the region had their right
to strike impeded.

An index for freedom and rights

Established in 2014, the ITUC Global Rights Index
gauges the state of workers’ rights in 151 countries,
benchmarking national environments against
international law. It excludes countries where

information is scarce or cannot be verified in line with
our methodology, but our ambition remains to cover all
countries in the Index.

The Index is the only survey that provides a credible
reading of violations and ratings for individual countries
and regions. It is based on extensive research drawn
from direct reporting from ITUC affiliates. This year, the
research revealed three trends shaping the future of
labour rights globally, which we illustrate and explore in
the “Global trends for workers” section of this report.

• The targeting of prominent trade union leaders.
• The use of digital surveillance to monitor and
discipline staff and track union organising.

• The lack of consultation with trade unions prior to
labour law reforms.

The fight for democracy

The 2026 ITUC Global Rights Index reinforces what
we have known for some time – that we are facing
a billionaire coup against democracy. The freedoms
and rights that ordinary people rely on to maintain the
most basic living standards and fair working conditions
are under concerted attack by a tiny minority that is
focused on the accumulation of wealth and power at
the expense of all of us.
2026 ITUC GLOBAL RIGHTS INDEX 8

Billionaires across the world are colluding with political
leaders, often on the right or far right, to consolidate
power and eliminate rights. In this coup, unions are in
the crosshairs because the workers they represent form
the bedrock of democratic systems. Fighting for their
rights from the frontlines of the economies they power,
workers and their unions defend the very pillars of
democracy, prosperity, and freedom.

The tactics vary, but those behind them share a
common purpose: to stop democracy from delivering
for workers. From undermining multilateral organisations
to rolling back hard-won rights and freedoms, these
strategies are designed to entrench power and silence
workers’ voices.

The violations and regressive trends in this year’s Index
show why, in 2026, workers and unions are fighting
for democracy – for what matters most: our rights, our
safety, our livelihoods, and, above all, solidarity.

Only through solidarity can workers overcome this
coup against democracy to guarantee a future that
works for everyone, not just the powerful few.

Luc Triangle
General Secretary

International Trade Union Confederation

Photo: CTA

As Argentina marked 50 years since the 1976 Argentine coup with mass
demonstrations honouring victims of state terror, it also entered the list
of the 10 worst countries for workers. Milei’s assault on the rights and
protections of working people has triggered a regression in workers’
rights that echoes some of the country’s darkest chapters.
GLOBAL TRENDS FOR WORKERS 9

GLOBAL TRENDS
FOR WORKERS

Union leaders under attack: intimidation and repression escalate

Governments around the world have a long history
of targeting leaders of trade unions to foster an

atmosphere of intimidation, threaten workers’ right to
strike and organise freely, and, ultimately, to weaken
the political and economic power of the labour

movement. Union leaders are harassed, attacked and
arbitrarily detained or arrested for organising peaceful
demonstrations, criticising policies and laws affecting
workers’ rights, and calling on workers to defend their
rights.

In these hostile environments, unionists can be forced
to flee their countries, as seen with leaders of the

National Union of Afghanistan Workers and Employees
(NUAWE) in Afghanistan and the Confederation of
Trade Unions, Myanmar (CTUM) whose members
remain exiled in fear of Myanmar’s military junta.

Anecdotal evidence from ITUC affiliates in the past year
suggests this trend is accelerating across the world and
that governments are increasingly acting with impunity,
targeting high-profile union leaders with little regard
for the law. A record high number of countries – about
half in the Index – have arrested or detained workers.
Workers suffered violence in a third of countries,
up from a quarter in 2025. They had no or reduced
access to justice in almost three-quarters of countries
surveyed.

In Hong Kong, former Chief Executive of the Hong
Kong Confederation of Trade Unions (HKCTU)

Christopher Mung remains self-exiled, as he faces an
arrest warrant, with his passport cancelled and assets
frozen. In Belarus, unionists welcomed the release of
Aliaksandr Yarashuk, Chair of the Belarusian Congress
of Democratic Trade Unions (BKDP), and Gennadiy
Fedynich, former head of the Belarusian Radio and
Electronics’ Industry Workers’ Union (REP), who had
been imprisoned since 2022. However, the manner of

their release underscored the authorities’ continued
hostility towards workers and their representatives.
In September 2025, just weeks before Yarashuk’s
scheduled release, the two unionists were deported to
Lithuania, still wearing prison clothes and deprived of
essential documents, including their passports.

Mali
In October 2025, Cheick Oumar Diallo, a former

member of the Malian water company, Société malienne
de gestion de l’eau potable (SOMAGEP), was injured
and abducted in public by men posing as policemen.
Diallo had been arrested in 2024 for criticising the poor
quality of water. He remains detained, incommunicado,
in an unknown location. This case reflects a broader
climate of repression of criticism through forced
disappearances, arbitrary arrests and human rights
violations.

Venezuela
In November 2025, 74-year-old José Elías Torres,
Secretary General of the Confederación de

Trabajadores de Venezuela (CTV), was arrested during
a police raid on his house. During his incarceration,
neither his place of confinement nor the charges
against him were made public. Torres requires daily
medication, making this a grave human rights concern
in a context where information about hundreds of
detainees in the country remains scarce. Torres was
finally released in February 2026.

Hong Kong
Lee Cheuk-yan, the former General Secretary of the
Hong Kong Confederation of Trade Unions (HKCTU)
who was convicted in 2021 for organising rallies during
the 2019 mass protests for democracy and universal
suffrage, remained imprisoned in 2025. In September
2026 ITUC GLOBAL RIGHTS INDEX 10

2021, he faced further charges for “inciting subversion”
due to his role as Vice-Chair of the Hong Kong Alliance
in Support of Patriotic Democratic Movements of China
(HK Alliance), which was accused of being a “foreign
agent” by national security police.

France

In December 2025, Sophie Binet, General Secretary
of the Confédération générale du travail (CGT), was
the victim of an unjust indictment following a complaint
for “public insults” lodged by the ETHIC employers’
association after a national radio interview in January
2025, where Binet voiced legitimate criticism as part
of a public debate, speaking out against major French
business leaders’ recurrent threats to leave the country
due to higher taxes and tighter regulations.

This case forms part of a deeply concerning trend of
legal reprisals against French trade unionists. Binet is
the fifth CGT representative in the last three years to
face legal proceedings in retaliation for legitimate union
work. Between 2023 and 2025, Sébastien Menesplier,
Céline Verzeletti, Myriam Lebkiri, and Gérard Ré were

also summoned by judicial authorities. Menesplier,
a former CGT leadership member, faced charges of
endangering others by violating safety regulations.
Lebkiri, a member of the leadership of the CGT, was
summoned for damage to property and action against
a publicly elected official.

Algeria
In Algeria, prominent union figures often face arrest
and long prison terms. Ali Mammeri, President of the
Syndicat national des fonctionnaires du secteur de
la culture et des arts (SNFC), was arrested without
a warrant in March 2025, held incommunicado for
four days, and reported being tortured and forcibly
undressed to extract a confession. He was sentenced
to 15 years’ imprisonment for “glorifying terrorist acts”
and sharing classified information under Algeria’s

anti-terror law. In fact, he had merely been exercising
the right to strike and sharing information on the

government’s reprisals against unions with the ILO and
exiled activists. In February 2026, an appeals court
reduced the sentence to 10 years.

Photo: Peter Parks / AFP



Visitors passed police at the West Kowloon Magistrates’
Court as the trial of labour activists began in January
2026. Governments are increasingly using prosecution
and detention to silence trade union leadership.
11

Surveillance has become an increasingly common
tactic used by governments and private companies
to target union activists, track and disrupt organising
efforts and strikes, and silence workers’ voices.

The rapid development of digital technologies and
artificial intelligence has equipped public authorities
and employers with ever more intrusive monitoring
tools. These technologies can scrutinise employees’
social media activity, identify and flag workers
discussing union matters, suppress union-related

content by labelling it as spam or reducing its visibility,
and infiltrate online workers’ groups to monitor or
undermine organising efforts.

The expanding use of AI-driven surveillance poses a
serious threat to human and labour rights. It generates
a chilling effect on workers’ willingness and ability to
organise and engage in collective action, undermining
the exercise of freedom of association and the

protection of workers’ representatives as guaranteed
under ILO Conventions Nos. 87 and 98. Beyond

labour rights, such practices raise profound concerns
regarding privacy, personal security, and civil liberties.

These repressive practices are not just limited to the
most technologically advanced economies. Technology
is enabling and accelerating state- and employersponsored
repression wherever there is the will to use
it against unions and workers.

Ecuador

In 2025, Ecuadorian lawmakers introduced a law
enabling surveillance without court orders, the
interception of communications, the collection of
private data, and defined threats in language broad
enough to criminalise social protest and union activity.
New laws also require civil society organisations to
disclose members’ personal information under threat
of dissolution, affecting about 13,000 organisations,
including unions. A prosecutorial resolution in 2025
also ordered the extraction of social media videos of
union leaders’ public statements.

Ethiopia

In June 2025, Ethiopian police arrested Dr. Daniel
Fentaneh, a gynaecologist and obstetrics resident at
Bahir Dar University, and confiscated his phone and
laptop. Dr. Fentaneh had played a prominent role in
nationwide protests by healthcare workers demanding
better working conditions and pay, and protection from
harassment and political intimidation. He had shared
information about the protests and the challenges
faced by health workers through a popular Facebook
page – “Dr. Debol” – which has since been deleted.
In court, police accused Dr. Fentaneh of inciting and
organising the strike through social media, claiming it
resulted in loss of life. Despite the court granting police
five extra days to support its allegations, Dr. Fentaneh
remains in prison in Bahir Dar.

India

Trade unions in India report that the government’s

anti-union tactics, including surveillance and monitoring
of unionists’ communications, contribute to a stifling
climate of fear. The Confederation of Free Trade Unions
of India (CFTUI) and the Indian National Trade Union
Congress (INTUC) have denounced the use of state
surveillance to arrest and detain union leaders. Unions
say platform companies have deployed identity blocks,
permanent account terminations, forced transfers, and
threats of police complaints against workers suspected
of union activity. In September 2025, a worker’s

account was blocked after she shared an experience
of customer harassment. She was reinstated only after
agreeing not to discuss the incident and to reveal the
colleagues with whom she had shared the incident.

North Macedonia

In February 2026, Federation of Trade Unions in
Macedonia (SSM) President Slobodan Trendafilov
and his family were targeted and monitored through
recordings of their private lives published on social
media. These recordings, including those of small

children and family members who play no role in union
activities, represent a gross violation of the right to
privacy.

Excessive digital surveillance targets workers

GLOBAL TRENDS FOR WORKERS
2026 ITUC GLOBAL RIGHTS INDEX 12

The ILO supervisory bodies have consistently

emphasised the importance of consulting all relevant
trade union organisations on matters affecting their
interests or those of their members. This not only
leads to more effective policymaking and democratic
processes, but it also helps to secure buy-in by allowing
union voices to be heard.

In 2025, major labour law reforms were adopted in
at least 21 countries. However, owing to the absence
of effective social dialogue institutions or the

marginalisation of independent unions by governments,
not all reforms were developed in consultation with
legitimate workers’ representatives.

Several national unions, including in Mexico and

Uganda, face persistent issues such as social dialogue
bodies not being set up or not being operational.
In Mauritius, the government unilaterally raised the
retirement age for pension eligibility from 60 to 65 in
2025 without any meaningful consultation with unions.

Where there are functioning social dialogue bodies,
in practice, consultations on labour often exclude
union opinions in countries such as Armenia, Benin,
Cambodia, Czechia, Estonia, Finland, Indonesia,

Iraq, Latvia, Malawi, Mauritius, Sri Lanka, and Togo. In
Peru, the national labour and employment promotion
council, Consejo Nacional de Trabajo y Promoción
del Empleo (CNTPE), is irregularly convened only for
information sessions, not for effective social dialogue
on substantive matters. The Italian government
continues to dilute the voice of workers within social
dialogue bodies by allocating seats to unions that are
not representative and civil society organisations that
do not have a mandate comparable to that of the social
partners.

Bolivia

In November 2025, the Central Obrera Boliviana (COB)
and other unions accessed leaked government plans to
transfer workers from the oil, gas, and electricity sectors
from the purview of the General Labour Law to a statute
for public officials. Unions said this transfer would
lead to the loss of social benefits, restrict the right to
unionisation, and weaken union structures, potentially
also indicating a first step towards privatisation.

Governments push labour reforms while shutting out unions

Despite mass protests throughout 2025, the

government continued its attempts to reform labour
legislation. In February 2026, Labour Minister Edgar
Morales Mamani said the general labour law (Ley
General del Trabajo) was “very old and no longer fits
our reality”. The COB denounced a “regressive assault”
on workers’ rights and declared a state of emergency
within the labour movement in protest against the
economic and social policies of the Rodrigo Paz
administration.

India
Unions report that a deterioration in government

consultation over labour issues has accelerated under
the rule of Prime Minister Narendra Modi since 2014.
In February 2026, over 300 million workers in India
participated in strikes called by the Joint Platform of
Central Trade Unions to protest the government’s
unilateral drafting and implementation of four labour
codes. The codes centralise power and facilitate

employers but curtail the rights of unions and workers.
Unions warn they weaken collective bargaining, restrict
the right to strike, and fail to promote social protection,
fair wages, and job security. The Indian National
Trade Union Congress (INTUC), one of the country’s
largest unions, was not included in the tripartite forum,
indicating a complete erosion of collective bargaining
in the country.

North Macedonia
Since 2025, the Federation of Trade Unions in
Macedonia (SSM) and other unions have endured
attacks orchestrated by the government in response
to their campaign to increase the minimum wage. In
January 2026, the SSM organised the “Great Workers’
Protest” in Skopje against a lack of respect for social
dialogue and the right to collective bargaining.

Morocco
In September 2025, a law on the right to strike
came into force in Morocco. Unions say the law
restricts the right to strike by establishing excessive
conditions, complex notification procedures, and

potential sanctions against individuals organising and
participating in strikes. The government has been
criticised for drafting the law unilaterally, without
meaningful consultation or social dialogue.
13

Togo

In January 2026, Togo’s main union federations called
on the President of the Council of Ministers, Faure

Gnassingbé, to reactivate the national council for social
dialogue (Conseil National de Dialogue Social – CNDS),
which had been dormant for months, arguing that its
inactivity created a consultation vacuum and deprived
social partners of a platform to present and negotiate
demands. Unions have also criticised government
restructuring that placed the Ministry of Labour under
the authority of the President of the Council of Ministers,
saying it weakens the ministry’s role in facilitating
dialogue. The suspension of the CNDS has limited the
mediation of major disputes and the search for solutions
to issues such as the rising cost of living and working
conditions.

Photo: Aizar Raldes / AFP



Retail trade union members marched in La Paz
on 2 June, 2025, to protest rising living costs
and shortages. Governments are increasingly
adopting labour law reforms without
meaningful consultation with trade unions.

GLOBAL TRENDS FOR WORKERS
2026 ITUC GLOBAL RIGHTS INDEX 14

AT A GLANCE

This is the 13th edition of the ITUC Global Rights Index.
It documents violations of internationally recognised
labour rights by governments and employers.

THE 10 WORST COUNTRIES FOR
WORKING PEOPLE
THE WORST REGION IN
THE WORLD

Argentina
Belarus
Ecuador
Egypt

 Eswatini
 Myanmar
 Nigeria
Panama
Tunisia
Türkiye
Middle East and
North Africa

Violations of workers’ rights

Right to strike Right to collective
bargaining
Right to establish
and join a trade
union
87% 80% 75%

75% of countries excluded
workers from the right to
establish or join a trade union.
80% of countries violated the
right to collective bargaining.
87% of countries violated the
right to strike.

Right to trade
union activities
(registration)

Right to justice
Right to freedom
of speech and
assembly
75% 72% 50%

50% of countries restricted free
speech and assembly.
In 72% of countries, workers had
no or restricted access to justice.
75% of countries impeded the
registration of trade unions.

Violent attacks
on workers

Right to civil
liberties
(arbitrary arrests)

Deaths

Trade unionists were killed in four
countries: Angola, Colombia,
Indonesia and Mexico.
Workers were detained and
arrested in 75 countries.
Workers experienced violence
in 48 countries.

(NEW) (NEW)
AT A GLANCE 15

C O U N T R I E S W H I C H
E XC LU D E W O R K E R S
F R O M T H E R I G H T TO
E S TA B L I S H O R J O I N A
TRADE UNION

C O U N T R I E S W H I C H
A R B I T R A R I LY A R R E S T
A N D D E TA I N T R A D E
UNION MEMBERS

C O U N T R I E S W H I C H
D E N Y O R C O N S T R A I N
F R E E D O M O F S P E E C H
AND ASSEMBLY

C O U N T R I E S W H I C H
E X P O S E W O R K E R S
TO P H Y S I C A L
VIOLENCE

C O U N T R I E S W H I C H
R E S T R I C T AC C E S S
TO JUSTICE
C O U N T R I E S W H I C H
V I O L AT E T H E R I G H T
TO C O L L E C T I V E
BARGAINING
C O U N T R I E S W H I C H
V I O L AT E T H E R I G H T
TO STRIKE
C O U N T R I E S W H I C H
I M P E D E T H E
R E G I S T R AT I O N O F
UNIONS

This graphic shows how the state of workers’ rights has deteriorated
or improved across the eight indicators globally. Each year, the
number of countries surveyed may vary slightly.

10-YEAR TRENDS: VIOLATIONS OF WORKERS’ RIGHTS

82 114 115 57 53 63

92 115 122 63 53 52

107 116 123 86 104 61 57 51

107 115 122 8 9 94 66 62 43

110 118 130 109 98 70 61 51

114 117 129 110 96 68 62 44

115 118 130 109 97 73 64 43

113 119 131 112 98 74 65 44

113 121 131 112 109 71 68 4 0

113 121 131 113 109 7 5 76 48

NUMBER OF COUNTRIES
2026 ITUC GLOBAL RIGHTS INDEX 16

WORSE RATING

COUNTRY 2026 2025
Albania 4 3
Argentina 5 4
France 3 2
Panama 5 4

THE 2026
RATINGS

AMERICAS

3.72

IMPROVED RATING

COUNTRY 2026 2025
Botswana 3 4
United Kingdom 3 4
Uruguay 1 2
17

MIDDLE EAST AND
NORTH AFRICA

4.68

AFRICA

3.91

ASIA-PACIFIC

4.08

5+ 5 4 3 2 1

N O G UA R A N T E E
O F R I G H T S D U E TO
T H E B R E A K D O W N O F
THE RULE OF LAW

N O G UA R A N T E E
OF RIGHTS

S Y S T E M AT I C
V I O L AT I O N S
OF RIGHTS

R E G U L A R
V I O L AT I O N S
OF RIGHTS

R E P E AT E D
V I O L AT I O N S
OF RIGHTS

S P O R A D I C
V I O L AT I O N S
OF RIGHTS

NO DATA

EUROPE

2.80

THE 2026 RATINGS
2026 ITUC GLOBAL RIGHTS INDEX 18

Rating 5+ NO GUARANTEE OF RIGHTS DUE TO THE BREAKDOWN OF THE LAW

Afghanistan
Burundi

Central African Republic
Haiti

Libya
Myanmar
Palestine
Somalia

South Sudan
Sudan
Syria
Yemen

Rating 5 NO GUARANTEE OF RIGHTS

Algeria
Argentina
Bahrain
Bangladesh
Belarus
Cambodia
China
Colombia
Ecuador
Egypt
Eritrea
Eswatini
Guatemala
Honduras

Hong Kong
India
Indonesia
Iran
Iraq
Jordan
Kazakhstan

Korea (Republic of)
Kuwait
Kyrgyzstan
Laos
Malaysia
Mauritania
Nigeria

Pakistan
Panama
Philippines
Qatar

Russian Federation
Saudi Arabia
Thailand
Tunisia
Türkiye
Ukraine

United Arab Emirates
Venezuela
Zimbabwe

Rating 4 SYSTEMATIC VIOLATIONS OF RIGHTS

Albania
Angola
Benin
Botswana
Brazil

Burkina Faso
Cameroon
Chad

Congo (Democratic Republic of)
Costa Rica

Djibouti
El Salvador
Ethiopia
Fiji
Georgia

THE 2026 COUNTRY
RATINGS

5+ 5 4 3 2 1 Countries listed in green are improving
Countries listed in red are worsening
19

Greece
Guinea

Guinea-Bissau
Hungary
Israel
Kenya
Lebanon
Lesotho

Liberia

Madagascar
Mali
Niger

North Macedonia
Peru
Senegal
Serbia

Sierra Leone
Sri Lanka
Tanzania

Trinidad and Tobago
Uganda

United States of America
Vietnam
Zambia

Rating 4 SYSTEMATIC VIOLATIONS OF RIGHTS

Rating 3 REGULAR VIOLATIONS OF RIGHTS

Albania
Armenia
Bahamas
Belgium
Belize
Bolivia

Bosnia and Herzegovina
Botswana
Bulgaria
Canada
Chile

Congo (Republic of)
Côte d’Ivoire
France
Gabon
Jamaica
Mauritius
Mexico

Montenegro
Morocco
Mozambique
Namibia

Nepal
Oman
Paraguay
Poland
Romania
Rwanda
South Africa
Switzerland
Togo

United Kingdom

Rating 2 REPEATED VIOLATIONS OF RIGHTS

Australia
Barbados
Croatia
Czechia

Dominican Republic
Estonia
Finland

Ghana
Italy
Japan
Latvia
Lithuania
Malawi

Moldova (Republic of)

Netherlands
New Zealand
Portugal
Singapore
Slovakia
Spain
Taiwan

Rating 1 SPORADIC VIOLATIONS OF RIGHTS

Austria
Denmark
Germany

Iceland
Ireland
Norway

Sweden
Uruguay

THE 2026 RATINGS
2026 ITUC GLOBAL RIGHTS INDEX 20

Positive reforms drive
three upgrades

The ratings for Botswana, United Kingdom, and
Uruguay improved due to positive changes in
labour laws that strengthened workers’ rights.
Many of these reforms dismantled restrictive
existing legislation and focused on establishing
less stringent conditions for strike action and
improving labour protections and union powers.
These developments reflect the role of structured
consultation with trade unions, demonstrating
that inclusive social dialogue contributes to more
worker-centred and effective labour reforms.

In 2025, under reforms led by President Duma
Boko, Botswana’s social democratic government
brought its labour laws into line with ILO Convention
No. 87 – ratified by 158 countries – which enshrines
freedom of association and the right to organise.
Botswana’s rating improved to 3 from 4, its

strongest ranking since 2016, signalling a change
from the systematic violation of rights to regular
violations of rights.

The Employment and Labor Relations Bill repealed
the long-criticised Trade Disputes Act and the

Trade Unions and Employers Organizations Act. It establishes a robust social dialogue structure with independent
resolution, ensures orderly collective bargaining, and safeguards the registration of unions. It enshrines the right
to freedom of association, union autonomy, and the freedom of expression, and protects workers from anti-union
discrimination.

The United Kingdom improved to 3 from 4, its best rating since 2022, after the Labour government passed the
2025 Employment Rights Act. The law repeals excessive restrictions to industrial action introduced in the previous
Conservative government’s 2016 Trade Union Act. The 2025 legislation removes minimum service level requirements

Workers’ rights under pressure: more countries worsen than improve in 2026 Index

In 2026, the ratings of Albania, Argentina, France, and Panama deteriorated, while Botswana, the United Kingdom,
and Uruguay improved. In a new Watchlist, the ratings of Guinea-Bissau, Israel, Liberia, the Philippines, the
Republic of Moldova the United States, and Zimbabwe are at risk of downgrade amid signs that conditions and
rights for workers and unions are under sustained pressure.

While less marked than in 2025, the imbalance between worsening and improving ratings at the national level
reinforces the long-term deterioration in workers’ rights since the Index began. Six out of ten workers worldwide
struggle in union-hostile environments characterised by the systematic violation of rights, or worse. The number of
countries rated 5, where workers operate with no guarantee of rights, rose by two to 41 – more than a quarter of the
countries included in the Index. There was no guarantee of rights due to the breakdown of the law in 12 countries –
unchanged from 2025.

Uruguay entered the top-tier rating for the first time since 2021, joining seven European countries where workers face
sporadic violations of their rights – the least repressive environment categorised in the Index.

WORSE RATING

COUNTRY 2026 2025

Albania 4 3

Argentina 5 4

France 3 2

Panama 5 4

IMPROVED RATING

COUNTRY 2026 2025

Botswana 3 4

United Kingdom 3 4

Uruguay 1 2
21

for some sectors, which threatened striking workers
with dismissal and unions with claims for damages.

The new law scrapped requirements for an additional
turnout threshold in some sectors as well as a simple
majority in ballots and reduced the notice period
for industrial action to 10 days from 14. Following an
extensive campaign by the Trades Union Congress
(TUC), electronic and workplace balloting will
be allowed for all votes and elections, reducing
dependency on postal ballots.

Uruguay returned to the top tier of the Index for the
first time in five years as the long-standing “Broad
Front” social democratic government demonstrated
its commitment to a peaceful and tolerant approach to
industrial action, particularly workplace occupations.
Building on the spirit of 2020 legislation that

guaranteed the right to strike, the right of non-strikers
to continue to work, and the right of management to
enter workplaces, the government has embraced a
non-interventionist stance on workplace occupations.
The Ministry of Labour and Social Security has used
powers to convene conciliatory hearings, focusing on
negotiation and dialogue to resolve disputes, avoiding
the use of force and police evictions.

Attacks on rights deepen:
four countries fall

The ratings of Albania, Argentina, France, and
Panama deteriorated as workers and unions faced a
wide-ranging assault, from the targeting of unionists
and interference in union activities to regressive laws
and the erosion of social dialogue.

Albania dropped to a rating of 4, its lowest score since
the Index began and indicating the systematic violation
of rights. Workers struggle to form independent,
recognised unions. In 2025, Turkish-owned Tete

Albania Tunnel and Mining refused to recognise union
representation, blocked votes, and bypassed union
negotiations. During a strike at the Spaç copper mine,
the employer deliberately dragged its heels during
mediation and questioned the legitimacy of the union.

Albanian workers also face persecution during
industrial action. Police attacked and unlawfully

detained striking miners at Spaç, including the chair
of the mine’s trade union council. A criminal complaint
for organising the strike was lodged against trade
union leaders, and the mine owner sacked 41 striking
workers, replacing them with external miners.

Photo: Justin Tallis / AFP



The United Kingdom adopted the Employment Rights Act 2025,
repealing restrictions on trade unions and modernising industrial action
rules. As a result, the country’s rating improved from 4 to 3.

THE 2026 RATINGS
2026 ITUC GLOBAL RIGHTS INDEX 22

Argentina’s rating fell for the second consecutive year
into category 5, an Index low for the South American
nation. This represents a sharp and unprecedented
decline from category 3 to 5 in just two years – a fall
from regular violations of rights to a situation where

workers have no guarantee of rights. Far-right President
Javier Milei has led a staunchly anti-union agenda since
coming to power in 2023, undermining basic workers’
rights, civil liberties and union activity. Argentina has
moved into the list of the 10 worst countries in the world
for workers’ rights.

Mandatory minimum service levels will be enforced
during collective bargaining disputes, with authorities
able to set the minimum service levels and to enforce
penalties for non-compliance.

Workers and unionists face systematic abuse and the
shrinking of civic space. In August 2025, police arrested
Federico Giuliani, Secretary-General of the Córdoba
branch of the Asociación Trabajadores del Estado –
Central de Trabajadores de la Argentina Autónoma
(ATE-CTA A), with 14 other protesters. Following his
release, Giuliani fled the country as a political refugee.
Union offices, including the headquarters of the
glassworkers’ union, were infiltrated and vandalised.

France deteriorated to a rating of 3, its lowest score
on the Index and its first decline since 2018. The fall
follows a sustained deterioration of workers’ rights,
an increasingly hostile political atmosphere, and
incrementally regressive government policy since
nationwide protests against pension reform deeply
shook the political landscape in 2023.

Since then, more than 1,000 Confédération Générale
du Travail (CGT) activists have fallen foul of state and
employer crackdowns and a spate of violent attacks
by far-right groups. CGT reported 250 cases of

employer repression, 342 activists facing disciplinary
proceedings, 62 incidents of union discrimination, and
180 activists or unions drawn into legal proceedings.
Sophie Binet, General Secretary of the CGT, was

indicted for voicing legitimate criticisms, during a radio
interview, of French business leaders’ threats to leave
France over taxes and regulations.

The ongoing failure to conclude a new unemployment
insurance agreement underscores the government’s
serious breach of genuine social dialogue. This is
particularly concerning given the state’s obligation
to respect, protect and fulfil labour rights, yet in this

Photo: Thomas Samson / AFP



CGT General Secretary Sophie Binet addressed
a meeting in Montreuil on 4 February 2026.
Authorities are increasingly using legal pressure
and intimidation to deter union activity.
2026 ITUC GLOBAL RIGHTS INDEX 23

instance it pursued a course of action that undermined
these fundamental principles. On 8 August 2025, the
then prime minister, François Bayrou, issued a so-called
framing letter to trade union organisations, seeking
to impose restrictive parameters on what should be
an autonomous negotiation between social partners.
Force Ouvrière (FO) and the Confédération française
démocratique du travail (CFDT) condemned this as
unlawful state interference, and on 10 September FO
referred the matter to the Council of State, challenging
the government’s attempt to impose binding conditions.
Following this legal challenge, the government was
compelled to withdraw the letter on 27 January 2026.

Panama dropped to 5, declining for the second year
in a row to register its lowest Index rating. Workers
and unions in the Central American country have
no guarantee of their basic rights and face ongoing
oppression from the state and employers. The country
also moved into the top 10 worst countries in the world
for workers’ rights.

In 2025, the conservative, anti-union government of
President José Raúl Mulino threatened to dissolve

Sindicato Único Nacional de Trabajadores de la

Industria de la Construcción y Similares (SUNTRACS),
Panama’s biggest union for construction workers
– the latest in a series of moves to intimidate the
organisation. The authorities wrongfully arrested

SUNTRACS union members and their families, some
of whom have been forced into exile. Marcelo Di
Stefano, Organising Secretary of the ITUC Regional
Organisation, the Trade Union Confederation of the
Americas (TUCA) was detained and expelled from

Panama in February 2026 after attempting to enter the
country legitimately on union business.

The Mulino government declared a state of emergency
in response to a general strike against social security
reforms organised by banana workers. Police arrested
and assaulted citizens without justification. Chiquita,
the multinational banana company, fired more than
6,000 plantation workers. The government was
subsequently compelled to introduce reforms and
oversaw the reinstatement of most of the workers. A
prominent union leader, Francisco Smith, was charged
in connection with his role in the strike.

Farmers protested outside Panama’s Supreme Court in
Panama City in July 2025. The country’s rating fell from 4 to
5 amid escalating attacks on trade unions and civil liberties.

Photo: Martin Bernetti / AFP
2026 ITUC GLOBAL RIGHTS INDEX 24

On the Watchlist: countries at risk
of ratings decline

Conditions for workers and unions are deteriorating
in Guinea-Bissau, Israel, Liberia, the Philippines, the
Republic of Moldova, the United States, and Zimbabwe,
putting their Index ratings at risk of downgrade in the
years ahead, unless policymakers and businesses
change course.

The authorities in Guinea-Bissau have a track record of
systematically persecuting unionists and undermining
workers’ rights and union independence. Its rating of 4
is under threat following a military coup in November
2025. The military authorities then banned protests
and strikes, targeted union leaders, and halted
union-related radio debates. Unions face ongoing
interference by the state. In recent years, attempts
have been made to replace the leadership of the
União Nacional dos Trabalhadores da Guiné-Central
Sindical (UNTG-CS), the nation’s biggest union, with
a government-backed organisation. The legitimate,
independent board of the UNTG-CS remains barred
from its headquarters.

In 2025, Seni Djassi, the spokesperson for the Frente
Social, which brings together two health sector unions
and two education sector unions, was forced into
hiding following threats of detention.

Since the start of its war in Gaza in 2023, Israel has
significantly restricted freedom of expression and civic
space to quell legitimate dissent. Once seen as one
of the least oppressive environments for workers and
unions in the Middle East and rated 2 as recently as
2022, Israel’s rating of 4 is at risk – marking one of the
most dramatic declines in the history of the Index. It
has repurposed counter-terrorism laws to designate
Palestinian civil society organisations as terrorist
entities, with the threat of prison sentences of up to
25 years for leaders. Benjamin Netanyahu’s right-wing
government has also broadened offences that are
punishable by death.

NGOs critical of the government face an 80% tax on
foreign state funding and, in March 2025, ministers
effectively revoked the registration of international
NGOs operating in the Occupied Palestinian Territory.
In an unprecedented act of repression, 100 Israeli

citizens were arrested and workers were dismissed for
expressing solidarity with Palestinian civilians on social
media.

Workers in Liberia, also rated 4, continue to fight for
the most basic labour rights, such as the right to join
or form a union and the right to strike, while employers
act with impunity to crush union activity. Liberia risks
slipping into the fifth tier of the Index if these conditions
persist.

For example, the National Health Workers’ Union
of Liberia (NAHWUL) has yet to receive full legal
recognition, despite being granted functional

recognition in 2018. In 2025, more than 60 striking
workers, including leaders from the National Union
of Hospitality, Aviation, Communications, and Energy
(NUHACE), were dismissed. Several were detained
and charged, although many cases have since been
dismissed or dropped. In July, a strike by National
Beverages and Trust Services Company workers was
met with severe police violence.

Private sector violations of labour laws and rights are
rife. The Security Expert Guard Agency of Liberia
(SEGAL) sacked 12 employees for attending a unionfocused
workshop in an effort to deter workers from
initiating collective bargaining negotiations after legally
forming a union. SEGAL has refused government
directives to reinstate the workers.

The Republic of Moldova’s place in the second tier of
the Index hangs in the balance due to a culture of union
busting and interference fostered by government and
exploited by the private sector. The ILO has repeatedly
warned Moldovan authorities about inadequate legal
protection for workers and insufficient deterrents for
employers.

In February 2025, JSC Regia Apă Canal Soroca, the
water and sanitation company serving the northern city
of Soroca, dismantled the company’s union structure.
Attempts to overturn the measure have proven

unsuccessful and the government has failed to uphold
the principle of union independence and the right to
freedom of association. JSC Regia Apă Canal Soroca
was reported to have collected disaffiliation letters from
workers, raising concerns that employees may have
been pressured to withdraw from the union and calling
into question the legitimacy of the process.

The Philippines has languished in the fifth tier of
the Index since its inception. While certain positive
changes made in 2025 have meant the country has
moved out of the top 10 list of the worst countries
25

in the world for workers, measurable improvements
have yet to be reported by unions. Last year, President
Ferdinand “Bongbong” Marcos Jr. signed an order to
provide guarantees to workers attempting to organise
and to limit the role of police and the military in labour
disputes. However, conditions remain extremely
challenging for unions in a country where authorities
have institutionalised “red-tagging” – the practice of
labelling unionists as subversive communists – and
where state harassment and intimidation of union
leaders continue unabated.

The authorities have introduced more complex rules
for union recognition, requiring unions to undergo and
win a certification election – a regressive measure
that makes organising significantly harder as it allows
employers time to “persuade” workers against

organising. The government has also set a “zero strike”
target, directly undermining the right to strike.

Without demonstrable improvement, the Philippines’
sustained attack on workers risks a further downgrade
in the country’s rating.

President Donald Trump has orchestrated an
unprecedented and sustained attack on the

fundamental rights of workers and unions, leaving the
United States of America’s long-held rating of 4 under
serious risk in the immediate future.

In 2025, Trump stripped collective bargaining rights
from more than a million federal workers across more
than 30 agencies – perhaps the biggest act of union
busting in the nation’s history. The move, reserved
in the past for emergencies, was portrayed by the
Republican administration as being in the interest of
national security. It means entire departments, such as
the Departments of State and Justice, and even the
Food and Drug Administration, are excluded from this
basic right.

Photo: Jack Guez / AFP



Shikma Bressler (right) led protests against the Israeli
government’s judicial overhaul. The country has seen a sharp
contraction of civic space, with laws used to restrict civil liberties
and target civil society, including trade unions.

THE 2026 RATINGS
2026 ITUC GLOBAL RIGHTS INDEX 26

In early 2025, Trump illegally fired National Labor
Relations Board (NLRB) member Gwynne Wilcox,
leaving the board without the three-member quorum
required to hear cases and stifling workers’ rights to
organise and engage in collective bargaining. Due
to court wranglings, the NLRB remained paralysed
throughout 2025. Trump also moved to dismantle the
Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service, established
by Congress to promote constructive labourmanagement
relations among companies, workers
and their unions, and to prevent costly and disruptive
workplace disputes. The changes made by the current
administration have led to millions of workers being left
without access to justice.

Tens of thousands of immigrant union members have
been stripped of their status and rights through the
unlawful termination of various forms of rights-based
protections and programmes, creating an intimidating
and threatening environment for the exercise of
labour rights and resulting in the loss of their jobs
and livelihoods. This includes the use of immigration
enforcement as a tool to quell the exercise of freedom
of expression, assembly, and association by detaining
or revoking the visas of workers who take action or
express positions disfavoured by the government.

Over the past year, Immigration and Customs
Enforcement (ICE) has been implicated in serious
violations of fundamental rights, including the use of
excessive force and the targeting of workers and union
representatives.

In June 2025, David Huerta, the President of the

Service Employees International Union (SEIU) California,
was injured and arbitrarily arrested during a union

protest against an ICE raid in Los Angeles. Community
leader Huerta, who has served the 750,000-strong
SEIU for more than 25 years, was honoured as
a “champion of change” by the Barack Obama

administration for promoting citizenship and integration
in the workplace.

The enforcement practices of ICE have contributed to
an increasingly hostile and dangerous environment
for workers and communities across the United
States, characterised by the use of excessive force
and intimidation. This context was starkly illustrated
in January 2026, when Alex Pretti, an intensive care
nurse and a member of the American Federation of
Government Employees (AFGE), was shot and killed
by ICE agents in Minneapolis while responding to
a community mobilisation to observe and protect
individuals targeted by the Department of Homeland
Security.

The harm caused by these militarised enforcement

practices extends well beyond these high-profile cases,
as hundreds of other workers and trade unionists
have been arrested and deported or detained in lifethreatening
conditions without charges or due process.
The coercive and threatening environment dramatically
increases the risks of exercising protected rights by
migrant workers, who represent nearly 20% of the US
workforce.

Zimbabwe has ranked in the fifth tier – no guarantee
of rights – since the Index began in 2014. The ruling
Zimbabwe African National Union – Patriotic Front
(ZANU-PF) is seeking to delay the 2028 elections by
increasing presidential and parliamentary term limits. As
workers and unions face continued state harassment
and repression, Zimbabwe’s rating is at further risk.
The authorities have abused legal powers to suppress
collective action and dissent, for example, through the
use of digital surveillance laws. Union leaders from
the education sector were arrested during strikes
and protests for better working conditions and fair
wages. The government also changed the law in
2025 to enable ministers to label advocacy-based
unions as “political” or “high risk”, which can lead to
their deregistration and loss of access to international
funding.
WORST REGION IN THE WORLD 27

WORST REGION IN THE WORLD

Middle East and North Africa: 4.68
Asia-Pacific: 4.08
Africa: 3.91
Americas: 3.72
Europe: 2.80

Across the Middle East and North Africa, workers are denied the right
to organise, join trade unions or collective bargaining, leaving millions,
particularly migrant workers, without fundamental labour protections.

MIDDLE EAST AND NORTH AFRICA
5+ 5 4 3 2 1
4.68

Photo: Fadel Senna / AFP
2026 ITUC GLOBAL RIGHTS INDEX 28

The Middle East and North Africa region has ranked
as the worst in the world for workers since the Index
began in 2014. In 2026, its rating held steady at 4.68,
hovering above the all-time low of 4.74 set in 2024. All
but four of the region’s 19 countries ranked 5 or 5+ in
the Index. Every nation violated the right to collective
bargaining, the right to establish and join unions, and
the right to register unions. The right to strike, free
speech and assembly, and access to justice were
severely suppressed.

The regional environment for workers is marred by
conflict and political instability. Four countries – Libya,
Palestine, Syria, and Yemen – rated 5+, where the
breakdown of the rule of law means there is no
guarantee of labour rights.

The war in Gaza has crushed workers’ rights, unions,
and economic activity across Palestine. By early 2025,
Israeli forces had significantly increased checkpoints,
roadblocks, and stringent permit regimes, all but cutting
off access to cross-border employment. In August

alone, more than 100 West Bank workers were arrested
in Jaffa for lacking work permits, at least 30 Palestinian
workers were detained in West Bank raids, and 14 Gaza
fishermen were seized at sea. The Palestinian General

Federation of Trade Unions (PGFTU) estimates more
than 12,000 workers have been arrested since October
2023.

In Gaza, Hamas suppressed independent union activity
and established “loyalist” alternatives. In the West
Bank, female workers faced exclusion, striking public
sector workers were arrested, and the private sector
persecuted union organisers.

In Yemen, government-controlled unions are
fragmented and lack resources, while in Houthicontrolled
areas, independent worker organisations are
subordinated to loyalist structures. Workers, especially
teachers, risked arrest or replacement for organising.

In Libya, independent unions faced severe restrictions
or outright bans. Authorities in both western and
eastern Libya targeted activists, migrant workers
were barred from organising, and forced labour was
commonplace.

After the Assad regime fell in Syria in 2024, hundreds
of thousands of public sector workers lost their jobs
without due process. Workers continue to face arbitrary
dismissals and limitations on independent unions.

9 5% O F C O U N T R I E S I N T H E
M I D D L E E A S T A N D N O R T H
AFRICA VIOLATED T H E
RIGHT TO STRIKE

8 4% O F C O U N T R I E S I N T H E
M I D D L E E A S T A N D N O R T H
A F R I C A D E N I E D W O R K E R S
ACCESS TO JUSTICE

1 0 0 % O F C O U N T R I E S I N
T H E M I D D L E E A S T A N D
N O R T H A F R I C A V I O L AT E D
T H E R I G H T TO C O LLE C T I V E
BARGAINING

8 9 % O F C O U N T R I E S I N T H E
M I D D L E E A S T A N D N O R T H
AFRICA RESTRICTED F R E E
SPEECH AND ASSEMBLY

1 0 0 % O F C O U N T R I E S I N T H E
M I D D L E E A S T A N D N O R T H
AFRICA VIOLATED T H E R I G H T
TO E S TA B LI S H A N D J O I N A
TRADE UNION

5 3 % O F C O U N T R I E S I N T H E
M I D D L E E A S T A N D N O R T H
AFRICA A R R E S T E D A N D
DETAINED WORKERS

1 0 0 % O F C O U N T R I E S I N T H E
M I D D L E E A S T A N D N O R T H
AFRICA IMPEDED T H E
R E G I S T R AT I O N O F U N I O N S

W O R K E R S E X P E R I E N C E D
VIOLENT ATTACKS I N 42 %
O F C O U N T R I E S I N T H E
M I D D L E E A S T A N D N O R T H
AFRICA

95%

84%

100%

89% 53%

100% 100%

42%
29

As the ratings of these countries attest, war and its
aftermath are never in the interest of working people,
and nowhere is this more evident than among the
millions of migrant workers caught in the crossfire of
the ongoing US-Israel conflict against Iran, which spans
the Gulf region.

The six Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) countries

collectively host nearly 35 million migrant workers – an
average of 70 per cent of the employed population –
the vast majority from the global south. These workers
face acute risks during conflict, with limited means
of escape. Language barriers, employer permission
requirements, and legal discrimination restrict their

access to information, shelter and evacuation channels,
while workers from wealthier countries are often
prioritised for evacuation. In the current conflict,

migrant workers from Pakistan, Nepal and Bangladesh
have been killed, with workers from at least 15 other
nationalities injured in attacks across the region.
These developments have laid bare and intensified
entrenched structural deficiencies in labour protections
within the region.

Millions of workers in the Gulf region are denied the
most basic labour protections, including the freedom
of association and organising. The kafala system of
“sponsored” employment has come under sustained
criticism for its abuse of migrant workers in countries
such as Kuwait, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, and the United
Arab Emirates.

In North Africa, authorities repressed independent
unions and workers through a climate of fear and
intimidation. In Egypt, the government reinforced
the monopoly of the state-controlled Egyptian Trade
Union Federation (ETUF) by blocking union registration
and activity. In Algeria, independent unions and their
leaders faced detention and prosecution. Regressive
changes to legislation in Tunisia curtailed collective
bargaining, suspended conciliation measures, and
blocked union secondments and dues collection.

Algeria

In July 2025, Lounis Saïdi, Secretary-General of the
Syndicat national des cheminots (SNC), was arrested
and sentenced to two years in prison for calling for an
open-ended rail strike to protest deteriorating working
conditions and low wages in the state railways. He also
denounced the management’s interference in union
affairs. A government-sanctioned assembly installed
a compliant union leader who called off the strike,
warning workers against causing “disorder”. Lounis
Saïdi was acquitted in October 2025 by the Court of
Appeal.

WORST REGION IN THE WORLD
2026 ITUC GLOBAL RIGHTS INDEX 30

Members of Indian trade unions took part in a rally during a nationwide strike in
Hyderabad in February. Across Asia-Pacific, workers face systemic constraints
on union activity, including barriers to registration, limits on collective bargaining
and the criminalisation of labour activism in several countries.

ASIA-PACIFIC 5+ 5 4 3 2 1
4.08

9 1 % O F C O U N T R I E S I N
A S I A- PAC I F I C V I O L AT E D
THE RIGHT TO STRIKE

69% OF COUNTRIES IN ASIAPAC
I F I C D E N I E D W O R K E R S
ACCESS TO JUSTICE

8 3 % O F C O U N T R I E S I N
A S I A- PAC I F I C V I O L AT E D
T H E R I G H T TO C O LLE C T I V E
BARGAINING

65% OF COUNTRIES IN ASIAPACIFIC
RESTRICTED F R E E
SPEECH AND ASSEMBLY

8 7 % O F C O U N T R I E S I N
ASIA-PACIFIC VIOLATED T H E
R I G H T TO E S TA B LI S H A N D
J O I N A T R A D E U N I O N

78% OF COUNTRIES IN ASIAPACIFIC
A R R E S T E D A N D
DETAINED WORKERS

9 1 % O F C O U N T R I E S I N
ASIA-PACIFIC IMPEDED T H E
REGISTRATION OF UNIONS

W O R K E R S E X P E R I E N C E D
VIOLENT ATTACKS I N 4 3 %
OF COUNTRIES IN ASIAPACIFIC91%69%83%65%
78%

87% 91%

43%

WORKERS WERE KILLED IN INDONESIA

Photo: Noah Seelam / AFP
31

The Asia-Pacific region is the second worst in the

world for workers’ rights, a position it has held since the
inception of the Index. In 2026, the 23 countries in the
region recorded an average rating of 4.08, unchanged
from 2025 and halting a steady, if slow, improvement
since its worst reading on record in 2022. About nine
in 10 countries violated the right to strike and the right
to establish and join a union, as well as impeding the
registration of unions.

Japan continued to impose legal restrictions on strikes
in specific sectors, while in Bangladesh, Cambodia,
India and Indonesia, strikes were suppressed through
police intervention, legal barriers and other repressive
actions. Bangladesh, Japan, Pakistan and Thailand
actively restricted workers’ ability to join or form unions,
while India and the Republic of Korea maintained
registration systems that effectively functioned as
permit regimes. Cambodia, India, Indonesia and Sri

Lanka weakened or circumvented meaningful collective
bargaining and social dialogue. Union busting practices
were widespread in countries such as Cambodia,
Indonesia, Malaysia, Pakistan, the Philippines, the
Republic of Korea and Sri Lanka.

Systematic state repression
of unions

The Asia-Pacific region was rife with examples of the
oppression and victimisation of workers and union
representatives. Regimes in Hong Kong and Myanmar
silenced independent unions and dissent through
the prosecution and persecution of union leaders
and activists. In Cambodia, India, Pakistan and the
Republic of Korea, activists faced arrest, detention, or
imprisonment. Police attacked and threatened workers
in Bangladesh, India, Indonesia and Myanmar in an
effort to suppress their rights to protest and organise.
India and Indonesia arbitrarily denied permits for

demonstrations, while the Republic of Korea imposed
legal restrictions on assemblies.

Unions hail legal reforms in
Bangladesh

Bangladesh (5) moved out of the top 10 list for the

world’s worst countries for workers’ rights. In November
2025, the interim government in Bangladesh led by
Nobel laureate Muhammad Yunus reduced barriers to
forming trade unions – a long-awaited reform made
possible by the fall of Sheikh Hasina’s authoritarian
regime in 2024. Previously requiring the consent of
20% of the workforce, unions can now form with the
support of as few as 20 workers, depending on the
size of the company. The reforms introduced 120 days
of paid maternity leave, explicitly included domestic
and agricultural workers in provisions for union rights,
welfare, and social security, and brought shipbreaking
under labour regulations. However, freedom of

association remains restricted due to other regulatory
obstacles and employer pushback.

Historic win for unions in Korea

In the Republic of Korea, unions secured historic
reforms to the Trade Union and Labour Relations
Adjustment Act after more than a decade of

campaigning. The amendments expand the definition
of “employer” to hold prime contractors and client

companies responsible for bargaining with non-regular
workers; broaden the definition of “labour disputes” to
include restructuring, layoffs, and relocations; and limit
employers’ ability to demand crippling damages for
strikes. The changes will empower unions to negotiate
more effectively, protect workers from retaliation, and
give non-regular and subcontracted workers clearer
legal avenues to defend their rights.

WORST REGION IN THE WORLD
2026 ITUC GLOBAL RIGHTS INDEX 32

Photo: Jekesai Njikizana / AFP



Across Africa, workers face repression for
collective action, including arrests, police
violence, retaliation against strike action, and
persistent attacks on trade union organising.

AFRICA 5+ 5 4 3 2 1
3.91

93 % O F C O U N T R I E S I N
AFRICA VIOLATED T H E
RIGHT TO STRIKE

8 1 % O F C O U N T R I E S I N
A F R I C A D E N I E D W O R K E R S
ACCESS TO JUSTICE

9 5% O F C O U N T R I E S I N
AFRICA VIOLATED T H E
R I G H T TO C O LLE C T I V E
BARGAINING

6 0 % O F C O U N T R I E S I N
AFRICA RESTRICTED F R E E
SPEECH AND ASSEMBLY

93 % O F C O U N T R I E S I N
AFRICA VIOLATED T H E
R I G H T TO E S TA B LI S H A N D
JOIN A TRADE UNION

42 % O F C O U N T R I E S I N
AFRICA A R R E S T E D A N D
DETAINED WORKERS

7 9 % O F C O U N T R I E S I N
AFRICA IMPEDED T H E
REGISTRATION OF UNIONS

W O R K E R S E X P E R I E N C E D
VIOLENT ATTACKS I N 3 2 %
OF COUNTRIES IN AFRICA

93% 95% 93%

81% 60% 42%

79%

32%

WORKERS WERE KILLED IN ANGOLA
33

Africa retained its long-standing ranking as the third
worst region for workers in 2026 with an average
country rating of 3.91, a slight improvement on last
year’s 3.95 and aided by Botswana’s upgrade to 3
from 4. The reality for most workers and unions across
the region remains extremely challenging: nearly all 43
countries violated the right to collective bargaining, the
right to strike, and the right to establish and join a trade
union.

In Benin and South Africa, police repeatedly used

force against strikes and sit-ins, while in Kenya, workers
experienced harassment and physical assaults across
multiple sectors. Arbitrary arrests and detentions
of trade unionists were reported in Angola, the

Democratic Republic of the Congo, and Zimbabwe.
In Angola, Liberia, Mozambique, and Zimbabwe,
strikes faced police brutality and arrests, while in

Guinea-Bissau, the military regime banned strikes and
demonstrations. In Benin, Burundi, Kenya, South Africa,
and Togo, striking workers were punished with unfair
dismissal and replacement.

Workers in Burundi, Mauritania, Mozambique, and
Rwanda had to contend with barriers to freedom of
association, while union busting was commonplace
in Kenya, Lesotho, Liberia, Madagascar, Senegal,
South Africa, Uganda, and Zimbabwe. Authorities
de-registered unions in several countries, including
the Democratic Republic of the Congo, Ethiopia, Mali,
Namibia, South Sudan, and Zimbabwe.

In Nigeria, workers and unions endured attacks on
trade union independence, arbitrary arrests, and

systematic union busting, while in Eswatini, repression
of trade unions, political violence, and the systematic
dismantling of workers’ rights persisted without
restraint.

Madagascar

In April 2025, two union representatives of the

Confédération des Syndicats des Travailleurs Malagasy
Révolutionnaires (FISEMARE) in Madagascar, JeanFrançois
Diza and Thierry Boutoufotsy, were dismissed
and imprisoned for collecting signatures during a
collective bargaining drive. This entirely lawful union
activity was interpreted by the employer, maritime

company SMMC, as an act inciting unrest and was filed
as a criminal complaint. The SMMC asked employees to
confirm that the unionists had misled them, demanding
they revoke their signatures.

Ethiopia

In June 2025, Ethiopia arbitrarily suspended the
Ethiopian Health Professionals Association (EHPA)
after a month of strikes by public healthcare

workers for better working conditions and pay. The
suspension, imposed by the Authority for Civil Society
Organisations (ACSO) under the pretext of procedural
non‑compliance, was widely criticised as politically
motivated and aimed at silencing the association’s
advocacy for health professionals. The Ministry of
Health also ordered the striking workers to return to
work or face legal action. During the dispute, workers
were unfairly dismissed, faced threats and intimidation,
and risked being replaced.

WORST REGION IN THE WORLD
2026 ITUC GLOBAL RIGHTS INDEX 34

Demonstrators marched in Santiago on 1 May 2025. Across the
Americas, workers face worsening violations of collective labour
rights in a region that remains the deadliest for trade unionists.

AMERICAS 5+ 5 4 3 2 1
3.72

8 8 % O F C O U N T R I E S I N
T H E A M E R I C A S V I O L AT E D
THE RIGHT TO STRIKE

76 % O F C O U N T R I E S I N T H E
A M E R I C A S D E N I E D W O R K E R S
ACCESS TO JUSTICE

76 % O F C O U N T R I E S I N T H E
AMERICAS VIOLATED T H E
R I G H T TO C O LLE C T I V E
BARGAINING

3 2 % O F C O U N T R I E S I N T H E
A M E R I C A S R E S T R I C T E D
F R E E S P E E C H A N D
ASSEMBLY

6 8 % O F C O U N T R I E S I N T H E
AMERICAS VIOLATED T H E
R I G H T TO E S TA B LI S H A N D
J O I N A T R A D E U N I O N

5 3 % O F C O U N T R I E S I N T H E
AMERICAS A R R E S T E D A N D
DETAINED WORKERS

92 % O F C O U N T R I E S I N T H E
AMERICAS IMPEDED T H E
REGISTRATION OF UNIONS

W O R K E R S E X P E R I E N C E D
VIOLENT ATTACKS I N 24%
O F C O U N T R I E S I N T H E
AMERICAS

88%

76%

76%

32% 53%

68% 92%

24%

W O R K E R S W E R E K I L L E D I N
COLOMBIA AND MEXICO

Photo: Rodrigo Arangua / AFP
35

The average country rating in the Americas region
deteriorated for a third consecutive year to 3.72,
its worst reading on record, from 3.68 in 2025. The
regional decline was driven by downgrades for

Argentina (from 4 to 5) and Panama (from 4 to 5). Both
countries joined the top 10 list of the worst countries in
the world for workers’ rights. Uruguay returned to the
top tier of the Index – an exception in a region largely
characterised by union repression and exploitation. The
region remained the deadliest for workers and their
representatives, with extra-judicial killings recorded in
Colombia and Mexico. About nine out of 10 countries
violated the right to strike and impeded the registration
of unions. Workers were arrested or detained in roughly
half of the 25 countries in the region.

Canada intervened repeatedly with ministerial orders
and binding arbitration to halt strikes, and Panama
repressed strikes by teachers and banana workers.
In Ecuador, union leaders were targeted ahead of a
nationwide strike. Broader anti-government protests,
such as those in Argentina and Bolivia, were violently
repressed by police, leading to injuries among

protesters and arbitrary arrests. Governments also
attacked freedom of speech and assembly, directly
affecting labour organising. Argentina proposed new
restrictions on protests, Bolivia criminalised roadblocks,
Panama curtailed public protest, and El Salvador
narrowed civic space with legal restrictions under a
state of exception.

Freedom of association was obstructed in several
countries, including Costa Rica and El Salvador. In
Argentina, authorities interfered in union affairs and
conducted mass anti-union layoffs, while in Haiti,
union leaders were targeted with dismissals and
intimidation. In Honduras, agricultural workers and

their representatives were stuck in prolonged disputes
over union recognition with their employer, while in
Guatemala and Chile, union representatives faced
retaliation for their organising efforts. In the United
States, collective bargaining rights were revoked for
large numbers of federal workers.

Chilling case of disappearance
in Mexico

The leader of the Confederación de Trabajadores de
México (CTM), Juan Francisco Palacios Murillo, has

been missing since 13 June 2025. Earlier in June, during
a demonstration against the breach of agreements
related to the construction of a public building, Murillo
denounced threats from members of organised crime
groups urging him to withdraw. The Prosecutor’s Office
confirmed that his disappearance was forced and
carried out against his will.

According to a 2025 ILO report, the Americas region
shows significant challenges to real and effective

social dialogue. This situation is further aggravated by
low rates of unionisation and the limited coverage of
collective bargaining, which weaken the effectiveness
of social dialogue. In most countries in the region, only
25 per cent of workers on average are covered by
collective agreements.

Big brother in the ‘land of the free’

The Department of Homeland Security’s Immigration
and Customs Enforcement (ICE) wields excessive
surveillance powers in the United States through

sophisticated tools, including apps that agents can use
to identify individuals and determine their immigration
status. Another app scans irises, while other software
enables access to location data. ICE also conducts
surveillance on social media using AI-driven tools to
collect information on individuals through their social
media presence.

The country’s expansive surveillance and data

collection practices raise serious privacy concerns
and threaten freedom of speech and expression,
creating a climate of intimidation for migrants and

activists, including workers with immigration status. In
March 2025, Kilmar Abrego Garcia, a member of the
International Association of Sheet, Metal Air, Rail and
Transportation Workers (SMART), was deported to a
maximum-security prison in El Salvador without due
process, justification, or appeal. He had fled to the US
and gained legal status in 2019 due to gang threats and
extortion in El Salvador.

WORST REGION IN THE WORLD
2026 ITUC GLOBAL RIGHTS INDEX 36

Workers took part in a march during a general strike in
Turin, Italy, in December 2025. Across Europe, workers face
increasing constraints on the right to strike, the criminalisation
of industrial action, and weakening social dialogue, alongside
rising cases of union busting and attacks on trade unionists.

EUROPE 5+ 5 4 3 2 1
2.80

7 3 % O F C O U N T R I E S I N
EUROPE VIOLATED T H E
RIGHT TO STRIKE

5 6 % O F C O U N T R I E S I N
EU R O P E D E N I E D W O R K E R S
ACCESS TO JUSTICE

5 6 % O F C O U N T R I E S I N
EUROPE VIOLATED T H E
R I G H T TO C O LLE C T I V E
BARGAINING

24% O F C O U N T R I E S I N
EUROPE RESTRICTED F R E E
SPEECH AND ASSEMBLY

4 1 % O F C O U N T R I E S I N
EUROPE VIOLATED THE
R I G H T TO E S TA B LI S H A N D
JOIN A TRADE UNION

3 4% O F C O U N T R I E S I N
EUROPE A R R E S T E D A N D
DETAINED WORKERS

3 9 % O F C O U N T R I E S I N
EUROPE IMPEDED T H E
REGISTRATION OF UNIONS

W O R K E R S E X P E R I E N C E D
VIOLENT ATTACKS I N 24%
OF COUNTRIES IN EUROPE

73%

56%

56%

24% 34% 24%

41% 39%

Photo: Elisa Marchina / Nurphoto via AFP
37

Europe’s average country rating deteriorated for a
fourth year in a row to an Index low of 2.80 in 2026
from 2.78 in 2025. This reinforces a trend of decline
in workers’ and union rights across the 41 countries
that make up the continent (including Central Asia).

Downgrades for Albania (now rated 4) and France (from
3 to 4) put downward pressure on the region’s average
score, partially offset by an upgrade for the United
Kingdom (3).

About three-quarters of countries in the region violated
the right to strike, including Albania, Croatia, Portugal,
and Spain. Belgium and Italy criminalised participation
in lawful strikes through road-blocking offences, while
in France, unions had to mobilise against proposed
law reforms aimed at weakening strike protections.
Finland and Spain imposed excessive restrictions
through essential service or minimum service rules,

while in Türkiye, union leaders continue to face judicial
persecution and charges of terrorism for their trade
union activities.

Collective bargaining was hampered and social

dialogue was denied in about half of the countries in
the region, including Germany, the Netherlands, and
Sweden, while Finland moved to abolish social dialogue
institutions.

Freedom of association was restricted in four out of 10
countries. Albania delayed union congress registrations,
and union busting practices were reported in Armenia,
Estonia, the Netherlands, Poland, Serbia, Slovakia,
and Spain. In North Macedonia and Türkiye, union
members were dismissed, pressured to resign, or
undermined by yellow unions (those dominated or
influenced by the employer) and state repression.

There were violent attacks or intimidation against

unions in about a quarter of the countries. In Italy, the
Confederazione Generale Italiana del Lavoro (CGIL)
offices in Rome were targeted, and union premises in
France were vandalised, while unionists faced death
threats.

Trade unionists were arbitrarily arrested, detained, or
imprisoned in about a third of the countries. In Türkiye
and Ukraine, union leaders were placed under house
arrest. In Belarus, the regime continued to imprison
independent unionists.

Italian court rules against
order to halt strike

In January 2026, an Italian court ruled that the Minister
of Transport’s injunction, which forced workers back
to work during the November 2023 general strike,
was unlawful. The court found that the government’s
heavy-handed response breached the lawful right to
strike, enshrined in 1990 legislation. It ruled that there
were no grounds of necessity or urgency to justify the
intervention. The ruling further clarified that the order
was not intended to safeguard the public – whose

needs were already protected through minimum service
requirements – but rather to limit the political and social
impact of the strike in the absence of any genuine
emergency.

Armenia

In Armenia, “isolated” company-level unions in public
bodies are reportedly endorsed and operated by
public officials. These “yellow unions” do not pursue
legitimate goals for workers and restrict their ability to
negotiate. Legitimate unions such as the Union of State,
Local Governments, and Public Service Employees
of Armenia (USLGPSEA) highlighted interference in

union affairs and employer control throughout 2025. At
the Shengavit District Office in Yerevan, management
disseminated pre-filled withdrawal applications to union
members, among other pressure tactics, to persuade
employees to withdraw from the union.

WORST REGION IN THE WORLD
2026 ITUC GLOBAL RIGHTS INDEX 38

10-YEAR TRENDS: REGIONAL RATINGS

MENA
(19 COUNTRIES)

EU RO P E
(41 COUNTRIES)
ASIA-PACIFIC
(23 COUNTRIES)
AFRICA
( 4 3 C O U N T R I E S )
AMERICAS
(25 COUNTRIES)
THE WORLD’S 10 WORST COUNTRIES FOR WORKERS39

THE WORLD’S 10 WORST
COUNTRIES FOR WORKERS

Each year, the ITUC Global Rights Index rates countries
based on their compliance with collective labour
rights and documents violations by governments and
employers of internationally recognised rights. These
are the 10 worst countries for working people.

Photo: Yasin Akgul / AFP



Turkish police detain a protester during a May Day
rally in Istanbul, Türkiye, in May 2025. Union busting
and the suppression of freedom of association remain
widespread, placing Türkiye among the world’s 10
worst countries for working people.
2026 ITUC GLOBAL RIGHTS INDEX 40

Argentina enters the list of the 10 worst countries for
working people following its downgrade to category 5 –
the second consecutive annual deterioration in its rating.
Under the far-right government of President Javier Milei,
conditions for workers and unions have grown increasingly
repressive and hostile.

Since coming to power in 2023, Milei has pursued an antiunion
agenda that dilutes workers’ rights in favour of the
private sector, from dismantling social dialogue structures
to labour reforms that undermine union negotiators and
the right to protest. The private sector, emboldened by the
state, has intensified its suppression of union activity.

Milei’s concerted attack on labour
and expression

The Confederación General del Trabajo (CGT) has

condemned Milei’s Labour Reform Bill as a “direct attack
on workers’ fundamental rights, grounded in an ideological
framework that treats labour as a cost to be minimised

rather than a human right protected by the constitution and
international treaties”. The bill imposes mandatory minimum
service levels for a broadened range of “essential services”
during collective bargaining and introduces limitations on
agreements that undermine workers’ ability to negotiate
fair terms.

Milei has introduced a wave of repressive anti-protest
orders that give security forces broad powers to use force
and the threat of legal claims for damages as a deterrent

against legitimate demonstrations, including strikes in
“productive” zones. State repression resulted in injuries
to at least 1,350 people during protests in 2025, including
retired workers and union members. Federico Giuliani,

Secretary-General of the Córdoba branch of the Asociación
Trabajadores del Estado – Central de Trabajadores de la
Argentina Autónoma (ATE-CTA A) was arrested during a
police crackdown in August 2025. After his release, Giuliani
fled Argentina as a political refugee.

Union busting and employer hostility
Employers in Argentina engage in union busting and
exploitative practices with impunity. Manufacturer

Lustramax filed for a preventive crisis procedure despite
reporting significant profits. Disregarding the mandatory
conciliation process, it laid off workers, including union
representatives, and brought police to its factory to quell a
workers’ assembly. Workers have denounced outstanding
bonuses and months of social security contribution arrears.

Argentinian courts ruled that mass layoffs at the national
social security administration (Administración Nacional
de la Seguridad Social - ANSES) were discriminatory – a
chilling confirmation that the government is seeking to
weaken union representation in the public sector. The
Sindicato de los trabajadores y trabajadoras de la ANSES
(SECASFPI) reported that 84.6% of the laid-off workers
were its members. Milei has slashed tens of thousands of
public sector jobs as part of ideologically driven austerity
measures.

ARGENTINA - NEW

For the second year running,
Argentina’s rating has worsened,
dropping from category 4 to 5 and
placing it among the world’s 10 worst
countries for working people. The Milei
government’s assault on trade unions
and civil liberties continues to take a
severe toll on working people.

Photo: Luis Robayo / AFP



• Legal reforms that weaken collective bargaining

• Anti-protest powers that stifle freedom of expression
• Union busting in the private and public sectors

WORKING PEOPLE FACE:
41

Belarus retains its position among the 10 worst countries
for workers’ rights. The systematic persecution of

independent trade unions and unionists continued in 2025
as authoritarian leader Alexander Lukashenko began his
seventh term in power. The ILO invoked Article 33 of its
Constitution against Belarus, a rarely used measure aimed
at ensuring compliance by countries that repeatedly flout
its recommendations. However, Belarusian authorities
refuse to recognise the mandate of the ILO Special Envoy.

Persecution of opponents and union leaders
Following talks with the United States in March 2026, the
Lukashenko regime pardoned 250 political prisoners:
235 were released in Belarus, while 15 were deported to
Lithuania.

In October 2025, 73-year-old Aliaksandr Yarashuk,
Chair of the Belarusian Congress of Democratic Trade
Unions (BKDP) and ITUC Vice-President, and 66-yearold
Gennadiy Fedynich, former head of the Belarusian
Radio and Electronics Industry Workers’ Union (REP),
were released as part of a group of 52 political prisoners.
Imprisoned since 2022, their passports were confiscated
and they were deported across the border.

More than 1,000 political hostages remain in Belarusian
prisons, among them at least 20 union activists, such
as 70-year-old Vatslau Areshka, a REP activist, who has
become almost completely blind while serving an eightyear
sentence at penitentiary IK-22, known as “Wolf
Holes”. Areshka is denied appropriate medical care and
relies on fellow inmates for daily support. Human rights
groups have condemned the prison’s failure to address his
needs.

Forced labour and show trials

In October 2025, the UN Special Rapporteur on Belarus,
Nils Muižnieks, documented pervasive discrimination
and harassment on political grounds in the public and
private sectors, as well as the use of hazardous forced
labour for little or no pay as punishment for those

unjustly incarcerated. Muižnieks deplored the wholesale
destruction of union rights in the country.

The autocratic regime has continued to weaponise trials in
absentia against union representatives. Maksim Pazniakou,
acting President of the BKDP, is wanted in Belarus and in
the Russian Federation for participating in international
forums and raising awareness of union repression.

BELARUS

(From left) Released trade unionists
Maksim Senik, Siarhei Antusevich, and
Aliaksandr Yarashuk endured lengthy
imprisonment in penal colonies and
prisons in Belarus, one of the world’s
10 worst countries for working people. • Political persecution and unjust imprisonment
• Dangerous, forced labour as punishment
• Forced deportation of trade unionists
WORKING PEOPLE FACE:

THE WORLD’S 10 WORST COUNTRIES FOR WORKERS

Photo: Salidarnast
2026 ITUC GLOBAL RIGHTS INDEX 42

Since rising to power in 2023, the increasingly autocratic
government of Daniel Noboa has pursued a systematic
offensive against unions and civil society in Ecuador,
from the criminalisation of union leaders, regressive

legislation, and digital surveillance to interference in union
affairs. This anti-union environment was epitomised in the
government’s repressive response to legitimate national
protests over the cost of fuel.

State crackdown on nationwide strike
over fuel prices

In September 2025, the Confederación de Nacionalidades
Indígenas del Ecuador (CONAIE) and allied trade unions
called a nationwide strike following the government’s
decision to remove a vital diesel subsidy – a move that
drastically increased the cost of living, especially for
working-class communities. During the 31-day strike,
demonstrators staged roadblocks and marches across
Ecuador.

The government responded with a violent suppression
of the fundamental right to protest, deploying police and
military forces who attacked demonstrators with tear gas,
rubber bullets, and live ammunition. According to the
Alliance of Human Rights Organisations of Ecuador, this
left two protesters dead, 473 injured, 12 missing, and 206
detained.

The state launched a criminal investigation against
the presidents of the Frente Unitario de Trabajadores

(FUT), the Unión Nacional de Educadores (UNE), the
Confederación Nacional de Organizaciones Campesinas,
Indígenas, Negras y Montubias (FENOCIN), and the
Federación de Estudiantes Universitarios del Ecuador
(FEUE) for the alleged attempted disruption of public
services. The authorities summoned UNE’s Andrés

Quishpe and FUT’s Edwin Bedoya to provide statements
for organising marches and issuing public statements in
support of the strike – acts that merely represented the
lawful exercise of their rights. Prior to the strike, state
agents were found to be monitoring and harassing union
and Indigenous leaders.

Meddling in union affairs

The government maintained a blanket refusal to register
sectoral unions, leaving workers unable to organise
at the branch level. In July 2025, a government order
granted authorities sweeping powers to intervene in union
affairs, including drafting statutes, conducting elections,
managing membership rolls and administering resources.
It was repealed in January 2026, following union pressure,
but the government has announced a replacement order
expected to maintain an equally restrictive approach.

In October 2025, the state prohibited organisations from
taking action against mining projects, imposed mandatory
registration in a centralised digital database, enabled
denial of registration on public order grounds, and created
powers to freeze funds considered “suspicious.”

ECUADOR

Workers held a rally in Quito in
September 2025, mobilised by unions
against insecurity and the policies of
President Daniel Noboa’s government.
Ecuador remains among the world’s 10
worst countries for working people.

Photo: Rodrigo Buendia / AFP



• Police and military brutality during strikes
• State espionage and detention

• Government interference in union affairs

WORKING PEOPLE FACE:
43

Egypt remained among the 10 worst countries in
the world for workers’ rights. The military-backed
authoritarian regime of President Abdel Fattah el-Sisi
has continued to enforce the monopoly of the statecontrolled
Egyptian Trade Union Federation (ETUF)
by obstructing the registration of independent trade
unions, with at least 14 unions unable to operate as of
2026. This leaves workers across the country without
access to independent representation.

Restricting independent union activity
The government imposed excessive documentation
requirements, delayed or denied registration

certificates, and refused to register any new union
where one already exists in the same enterprise or
sector. Membership thresholds for forming federations
remain excessive and unrealistic, requiring at least
15,000 members across 10 unions. The Egyptian
constitution, which states that no profession may
have more than one representative union body, is
frequently cited to deny legal status to multiple unions
representing diverse worker interests and viewpoints,
entrenching the ETUF monopoly.

Workers who attempt to form independent unions
or engage in collective bargaining face dismissal or
transfer, and activists risk arrest or terrorism charges
for organising. State interference in union elections and
governance is pervasive and systematic. The climate of
fear and retaliation means hazardous workplaces and
unfair practices are commonplace, to the detriment of
workers.

State repression of strikes

While the constitution appears to protect peaceful
strikes, they are not tolerated in practice. The 2013
Protest Law and security decrees are used to prohibit
gatherings considered to “impede work”. Only strikes
organised by ETUF-affiliated unions are considered
lawful, leaving workers with no safe avenue to contest
grievances.

EGYPT

Egypt remains among the 10 worst
countries for working people in
2026, where workers’ rights are not
guaranteed. Authorities continued to
obstruct independent trade unions,
with workers facing dismissal, arrest
or other reprisals for organising and
engaging in collective action.

Photo: Doaa Adel / Nurphoto via AFP



• State monopolisation of unions

• Impossible barriers to union registration

• Risk of arrest on terrorism charges for organising

WORKING PEOPLE FACE:

THE WORLD’S 10 WORST COUNTRIES FOR WORKERS
2026 ITUC GLOBAL RIGHTS INDEX 44

Eswatini is a country frozen in time and in place,

characterised by entrenched union repression, political
violence, and the systematic dismantling of workers’
rights, with little accountability or reform. Workers and
union activists are victims of retaliation and intimidation,
while facing the risk of job loss: fixed-term contracts are
weaponised against unionists. Trade union recognition
is disregarded with impunity, and the government in
Africa’s last remaining absolute monarchy maintains a
complete refusal to engage in social dialogue.

Unrelenting union harassment

The Swaziland National Association of Teachers
(SNAT), the only teachers’ union in Eswatini and one
of the oldest unions in Africa, has faced a sustained
government harassment campaign. SNAT President
Mbongwa Dlamini has been suspended from his

teaching position since 2022 as a tactic of intimidation
against his union activities. Teachers are banned from
speaking about democracy. Parliament is debating a
law that would ban unions from government buildings
and make it illegal to present a petition.

Rampant union busting

Union busting is routine in Eswatini. At the state-owned
Eswatini Electricity Company, management helped
form a parallel union representing less than 10 per
cent of the workforce and granted it full bargaining
rights. The legitimate affiliate, the Swaziland Electricity,
Maintenance and Allied Workers Union (SESMAWU),
holds over 90 per cent membership, but has not been
granted recognition as the representative agent.

Seasonal contract workers in the Eswatini Sugar
Association were intimidated into withdrawing their
membership from the Swaziland Agricultural and
Plantations Workers Union (SAPWU). During the

takeover of United Plantations Company by the Public
Service Pension Fund, union shop stewards were
dismissed. The management of Eswatini Plantations
designated a section of employees as “staff” to make
them ineligible for SAPWU membership, aiming to force
workers to join a government-supported union.

TUCOSWA members continue to
demand rights for their members
amid an atmosphere marked by
trade union repression, intimidation,
retaliation and job insecurity. Eswatini
remains among the 10 worst countries
for working people in 2026.

ESWATINI

• State repression and intimidation
• Routine union busting

• No social dialogue or freedom of expression

WORKING PEOPLE FACE:

Photo: Kemal Aslan / AFP
45

In Myanmar, the military junta’s assault on workers and
trade unions has accelerated. Over five years since the
coup, 69 unionists remain imprisoned, 30,000 people
have been arbitrarily arrested or detained, more than
3.5 million have been forcibly displaced, and forced
labour has become widespread in industrial zones.

In June 2025, the International Labour Conference
invoked Article 33 of the ILO Constitution against
Myanmar’s military junta – a rare measure reserved for
the gravest situations – calling for an end to financial
flows to the regime.

Arrest of Daw Myo Aye
In July 2025, 56-year-old Daw Myo Aye, leader of the
Solidarity Trade Union of Myanmar (STUM), was forcibly
arrested at her home in Yangon, and STUM’s office
was raided, with laptops and mobile phones seized.
Her daughter, Chue Thwel, and several STUM staff
members were also arrested, while all STUM offices –
including those of affiliate organisations – were sealed.

Aye was released in October 2025, but the charges
against her were reinstated. She was ordered to sign
a bond with two guarantors and pay 30 million MMK
(US$736), requiring her to maintain ‘good behaviour’

for six months. Nine other STUM members remain
detained, including Aye’s daughter. Other unionists
remain in exile as the junta has designated these
groups as terrorist organisations.

Government-backed union to suppress
workers

The military regime has created a parallel, illegitimate
trade union structure, the Myanmar Labour

Confederation, to replace independent unions like the
Confederation of Trade Unions in Myanmar (CTUM) and
the Industrial Workers Federation of Myanmar (IWFM).

State surveillance: digital repression
Myanmar’s military has used digital surveillance to
restrict freedom of assembly and association, targeting
trade unions, human rights defenders, journalists,
civil society, and marginalised groups. Authorities link
individuals’ physical presence to their digital identities
through AI-powered facial recognition, licence plate
recognition, and CCTV systems in major cities, turning
public spaces into sites of constant monitoring and
repression. As of November 2025, thousands have
been arbitrarily arrested or detained for their online
activity.

MYANMAR

Under Myanmar’s military junta, workers
and trade unions face a sustained
crackdown on their rights and freedoms.
The country remains among the 10 worst
countries in the world for working people
in the 2026 Global Rights Index.

45

• Arrests and exile as political refugees

• State efforts to undermine independent unions
• Persecution via digital surveillance

WORKING PEOPLE FACE:

Photo: Lillian Suwanrumpha / AFP



THE WORLD’S 10 WORST COUNTRIES FOR WORKERS
2026 ITUC GLOBAL RIGHTS INDEX 46

was inaugurated discreetly at an undisclosed location.
The secretariat remains under illegal occupation, with
the legitimate leadership denied access.

Union busting

Nigerian employers regularly engage in union busting.
MTN Nigeria denies certain categories of workers
the right to join the Private Telecommunication and
Communications Senior Staff Association of Nigeria
(PTECSSAN), their union of choice. Daewoo Nigeria has
refused to allow workers to join the union of their choice
in violation of Nigerian labour law. Dangote Refinery
has mandated workers to join a management-backed
union, dismissed workers for joining the Nigeria Union
of Petroleum and Natural Gas Workers (NUPENG), and
created yellow unions to circumvent genuine collective
bargaining.

Arrests

Members of the National Association of Plant Operators
of Nigeria (NAPO) were detained in Port Harcourt on
charges widely alleged by union representatives to be
fabricated for demanding their rights within the Nigeria
Liquefied Natural Gas Train 7 project.

Nigeria joined the 10 worst countries for workers in
the 2025 Index. Workers and unions continued to face
attacks on trade union independence, arbitrary arrests,
and systematic union busting.

Occupation of union offices

The labour rights situation in Edo State has deteriorated
sharply since December 2024, when the state
government forcibly occupied the Nigeria Labour
Congress (NLC) Secretariat in Benin City with hired
thugs and police, locking the building and imposing its
own candidate as head of the NLC in place of the duly
elected chairperson.

The situation escalated further in August 2025 when
the Edo State House of Assembly passed a motion
urging the NLC leadership to halt plans to inaugurate a
caretaker committee for the Edo State Council, despite
having no constitutional authority. When the NLC team
arrived in Benin City to conduct the inauguration,
the secretariat remained under lock, surrounded by
state forces and hired thugs reportedly acting on the
Governor’s orders. Faced with the threat of violence,
and after being chased across the city, the committee

NIGERIA

Civil society groups and the Nigeria Labour
Congress joined forces to peacefully protest
growing insecurity in the country. Nigeria
remains among the 10 worst countries
in the world for working people.
• State interference in union activities
• Union busting and “yellow” unions
• Arrests and intimidation
WORKING PEOPLE FACE:

Photo: Adekunle Ajayi / Nurphoto via AFP
47

PANAMA - NEW

Panama is a new entry among the 10 worst countries
for workers’ rights, following its downgrade to category
5 – the second consecutive year of deterioration in
the country’s rating. President José Raúl Mulino has
intensified efforts to repress the right to strike and

freedom of expression, while state forces have targeted
union leaders. Employers, including internationally
recognised brands, have flouted labour laws and basic
rights with impunity.

Concerted attacks on SUNTRACS and its
leadership

The Mulino administration’s campaign against the

Sindicato Único Nacional de Trabajadores de la Industria
de la Construcción y Similares (SUNTRACS) intensified.
SUNTRACS, the country’s largest construction
workers’ union, representing 85,000 members, was
threatened with dissolution in July 2025, the latest
step in Mulino’s efforts to restrict mass mobilisation,
suspend constitutional rights and target striking workers.
In October 2025, 17 search and arrest warrants were
executed at the homes of union executives and their
family members, reflecting the government’s deliberate
strategy to intimidate union leadership and destabilise
the union.

Expulsion of TUCA’s Marcelo Di Stefano
Underlining the Panamanian government’s hostility to
unionists, Marcelo Di Stefano, Organising Secretary
of the ITUC Regional Organisation, the Trade Union
Confederation of the Americas (TUCA), was detained
and expelled from Panama in February 2026. He was

visiting the country legitimately to participate in a union
seminar and an ILO tripartite mission.

Crackdown in the banana sector
In April 2025, the banana worker unions Sindicato
Industrial de Trabajadores de Productores Bananeros
Independientes (SITRAPBI) and Sindicato de

Trabajadores de la Industria Bananera, Agropecuaria
y Empresas Afines (SITRAIBANA) organised a general
strike, involving about 7,480 mainly Indigenous workers,
demanding social dialogue and opposing an increase in
employee social security contributions. Within a month,
the Mulino government declared a state of emergency.
Police detained citizens without lawful justification, and
internet access was cut, hindering the documentation
of abuses. The Panamanian Ombudsman’s Office

reported 104 cases of abuse – including excessive force,
beatings, prolonged handcuffing, and tear gas exposure
– and 92 cases of detention without cause.

In the aftermath of the protests, banana giant Chiquita
dismissed more than 6,000 workers. President Mulino
intervened and persuaded Chiquita to bring back 5,000
jobs by February 2026; however, unions were excluded
from the negotiations. In 2025, Mulino also introduced
long-overdue reforms for banana workers, increasing
pension benefits and improving support for those
injured on the job. However, shortly after the law was
signed, the General Secretary of SITRAIBANA, Francisco
Smith, who had met with Mulino to discuss the reforms,
was arrested on charges related to the strike.

Workers marched through Panama City in
May 2025, defying a government crackdown
on labour rights and attacks against union
leaders. Panama has entered the world’s 10
worst countries for working people.
• Victimisation of unions and activists

• Excessive state responses to strike action
• Arrests and abuse

WORKING PEOPLE FACE:

Photo: Martin Bernetti / AFP



THE WORLD’S 10 WORST COUNTRIES FOR WORKERS
2026 ITUC GLOBAL RIGHTS INDEX 48

As Tunisia slides further into autocracy under President
Kais Saïed, the authorities have continued a systematic
campaign to weaken unions and radically undermine the
rights of workers and labour activists. In 2025, the right
to collective bargaining and social dialogue came under
sustained attack, while unions and their leaders faced
intimidation and disruption.

Social dialogue under threat

A draft Finance Law tabled in October 2025 removes
wage negotiation from the scope of collective bargaining
– a significant escalation in the erosion of workers’
rights. The suspension of conciliation commissions and
the paralysis of the National Council for Social Dialogue
have effectively dismantled the mechanisms necessary
to ensure stable labour relations. Between August and
October 2025, negotiations were suspended across
key sectors, while union secondments – the practice of
allowing workers to take time away from their regular
duties to carry out union functions – and the collection of
union dues were halted.

In August 2025, the government cancelled meetings
with the Union Générale Tunisienne du Travail (UGTT)
concerning strikes in the pipeline transport and

agricultural sectors. The UGTT denounced the unilateral
and unlawful decision as a serious violation of the
principles of social dialogue.

State sabotage of union operations
The withdrawal of union leave, the cancellation of
representative authorisations, and threats to stop union
dues reflect deliberate state efforts to undermine union
capacity. In August 2025, following the government’s
revocation of union leave, the UGTT announced a major
protest. Prior to the protest, government supporters
organised a counter-rally, culminating in an attempted
attack on UGTT headquarters. The government’s
unilateral cancellation of union secondment in the
public sector reversed decades of established practice,
stripping dozens of officials of full-time union roles and
disrupting operations across education, health, and
public utilities.

In July 2025, a three-day transport strike over wages and
conditions was met with threats designed to deter future
industrial action. Police were reported to have obstructed
participation in pro-union protests, creating a chilling
effect on mobilisation and restricting civil liberties.

Government targets ITUC affiliate

For several years, the authorities have attempted to
silence ITUC affiliate, the Union Générale Tunisienne du
Travail (UGTT), targeting the trade union movement, civil
society, and any actor defending democratic freedoms.
Senior UGTT leader Hfaiedh Hfaiedh was prosecuted
and faced harassment and intimidation. The UGTT
headquarters has also been subjected to attacks, amid
calls for the union’s dissolution.

A demonstrator raises her hand, calling
for the release of imprisoned opposition
figure and lawyer Abir Moussi during a
rally outside UGTT headquarters. Tunisia
remains among the 10 worst countries in
the world for working people.

TUNISIA

• Drastic weakening of collective bargaining
• Hostile environment for protests
• Attacks on union operations

WORKING PEOPLE FACE:

Photo: Chedly Ben Ibrahim / Nurphoto via AFP
49

Türkiye retains its long-held position in the top 10 list of
the worst countries for workers’ rights. The government
of authoritarian President Recep Tayyip Erdoğan has
a long track record of crushing basic labour rights.
Union busting and violations of the right to freedom
of association, for example, are regularly deployed as
retaliatory tactics by the state and employers.

A culture of union busting
In January 2025, workers at Digel Textile, a Germanowned
garment manufacturer, joined the garmentworkers
union, TEKSIF, after it was confirmed as
the legitimate collective bargaining agent by the

government. In response, four leading union members
were dismissed without severance. Digel challenged
the certification process and claimed TEKSIF had no
majority. A further 15 members were fired in an attempt
to silence their activism.

Metal-workers union Birleşik Metal-İş was certified as
the official bargaining agent at SAG Hidrolik, an Italianowned
hydraulic systems manufacturer, in August 2025.
The company responded by dismissing three union
members without cause. Management threatened
workers with factory closure if they did not resign from
the union.

Arrests and threats
At the state level, repression is more direct. In July
2025, President Erdoğan issued an order preventing
a lawful miners’ strike at state-owned Eti Maden,
arguing it posed a threat to national security. The
order postponed the strike for 60 days, which, under
Turkish labour law, automatically transfers disputes to
compulsory arbitration, bypassing the right to strike.

Following a solidarity strike by the education and
science workers’ union Eğitim Sen in March 2025,
authorities placed its leadership under house arrest.
The strike was called in response to the politically
motivated arrest of Istanbul Mayor Ekrem İmamoğlu.
While their house arrest has ended, the union leaders
face restrictive measures, including weekly police
reporting requirements.

TÜRKIYE

Workers rallied in Kayseri, Türkiye, on
May Day 2025, but the right to organise
remains under sustained pressure. Türkiye
continues to rank among the 10 worst
countries for working people.
• Union busting and retaliation

• State violation of the right to strike
• Arbitrary arrests

WORKING PEOPLE FACE:

Photo: Damun Pournemati / Middle East Images via AFP



THE WORLD’S 10 WORST COUNTRIES FOR WORKERS
2026 ITUC GLOBAL RIGHTS INDEX 50

MOST VIOLATED RIGHTS
IN THE WORLD

The Global Rights Index tracks the key elements of
workplace democracy, including freedom of association,
the right to collective bargaining, the right to strike, and
the right to free speech and assembly, which together
symbolise a healthy democracy.

These are the nine workers’ rights that were most
frequently violated over the past year.

The right to strike enables workers to collectively stop
working to advocate for their rights, for example, to
negotiate better pay and safer conditions. In 2026,
strikes were restricted or banned in 131 countries (87%),
unchanged from the 2025 report. This indicates that a
significant majority of ILO member states are in breach
of ILO Convention No. 87, which enshrines freedom of
association and the right to organise, forming the basis
for the right to strike.

The excessively broad interpretation of “essential
services” and minimum service requirements has

constrained industrial action in many countries, such as
Finland, Spain, and Sri Lanka. Excessive procedural
requirements and cooling-off periods have delayed or
diluted strike action in Belgium, Croatia, Mauritania,
Morocco, and Namibia.

Strikes were brutally repressed and workers were
injured by police or arbitrarily arrested in Algeria,
Belgium, Cambodia, India, Iraq, Mozambique,

Portugal, and Spain. In Japan, public service workers
who incite strikes face significant fines or imprisonment.

Threats to the right to strike

Employer interference has further undermined strike
action, including the replacement of striking workers
in Finland, South Africa, and the United States of
America, or disciplinary sanctions and dismissals in
Burundi, India, Kenya, the Republic of Korea, and
Togo.

Roadblocking

Governments in Europe and South America are
increasingly seeking to promote anti-union sentiment
and restrict the right to strike through the criminalisation
of the occupation of public roads during protests or
roadblocks.

In December 2025, the government of Bolivia tabled
a law that criminalises the blocking of roads with
penalties of three to six years imprisonment, or up to
eight years for those who “promote, instigate, plan,
organise, finance, collaborate or direct the blockades”.
The law follows massive anti-government protests,
which were brutally repressed by law enforcement. In
Italy, 10,000 metalworkers from CGIL-FIOM, CISL-FIM,
51

and UIL-UILM in Bologna participated in a peaceful
demonstration in June 2025 to demand the renewal of
a collective agreement. Bologna’s Public Prosecutor’s
Office applied for a criminal decree against three trade
union leaders on charges of blocking roads.

The framing of roadblocking as a criminal offence
has also been misused by authorities in Belgium to
suppress the right to strike. The offence of “malicious
obstruction of traffic” was used to convict workers
involved in strikes in the Port of Antwerp and at
Cheratte Bridge. Argentina has instituted an antiblockade
protocol to maintain “public order in the event
of road blockages”, which authorises the indiscriminate
use of police force and the threat of legal liability
for damages as a deterrent against legitimate social
protest.

Canada

In Canada, the government continued to invoke section
107 of the Canada Labour Code, which empowers the
Minister of Labour to intervene in labour disputes and
the Canada Industrial Relations Board (CIRB) to invoke
binding arbitration. In August 2025, the government
ordered a halt to a strike called by the Canadian Union
of Public Employees (CUPE) involving over 10,000 Air
Canada flight attendants. The union remained on strike,
which was declared unlawful, and the dispute moved to
arbitration in January 2026. Striking workers of Canada
Post and their union, the Canadian Union of Postal

Workers (CUPW), were also issued back-to-work orders
under section 107.

Bangladesh

In April 2025, factory workers protesting unpaid

wages and bonuses faced violent police suppression.

Workers from Apparel Plus EC Limited, TNZ Apparels
Ltd, and Apparel Art Ltd gathered outside Ministry of
Labour offices to demand their dues. The protest was
dispersed using tear gas, resulting in injuries to many
workers.

Saudi Arabia

In Saudi Arabia, a country with a large migrant
workforce, workers routinely faced retaliation for

participating in protests and strikes. In November 2025,
migrant construction workers were detained after
protesting and staging work stoppages on the Masar
(Mecca) project, having not been paid for months.

Trade unions in Quebec mobilised against legislation restricting the right
to strike and weakening union autonomy. Canada is among the 87% of
countries that violated the right to strike.

10-YEAR TRENDS: COUNTRIES WHICH VIOL ATE THE RIGHT TO STRIKE

Photo: CSN

MOST VIOLATED RIGHTS IN THE WORLD
2026 ITUC GLOBAL RIGHTS INDEX 52

The right to collective bargaining enables workers
to negotiate with their employer via a representative
trade union. It is enshrined in ILO conventions. In 2026,
this right was seriously curtailed or non-existent in 121
countries (80% of the Index) unchanged from 2025.
Violations of the right to collective bargaining include
acts of bad faith, delay tactics, or non-compliance by
private and public sector employers.

Bad-faith bargaining and unilateral employer practices
have been documented in Burkina Faso, Canada,
the Democratic Republic of the Congo, Estonia,
Germany, Hungary, Italy, Nepal, and Sweden,
including delays in negotiations, refusal to bargain,
unilateral measures, or lack of consultation in
restructuring processes.

Employers have refused to implement or have

unilaterally modified collective bargaining agreements
in Cambodia, Colombia, Croatia, Kenya, Mexico, the
Republic of Korea, Serbia, South Africa and Zambia.
In Mauritania, about 2,000 dockworkers were fired by
their new employer, SOGETRAP, reneging on a formally
negotiated tripartite agreement.

In the public sector, workers face prolonged delays in
negotiations, excessive rules for representation, and
the termination of agreements by the public authorities.
For example, in many public and para-public sectors
in Benin, collective agreements are not honoured. In
Morocco, 97% of workers are not covered by collective
bargaining agreements due to a 35% representation
threshold. Public health workers in Côte d’Ivoire have
waited three years for a collective agreement after a
2023 strike over pay and conditions.

Honduras

In February 2026, the Honduran government ordered
Fyffes/Sumitomo to compensate predominantly

seasonal workers and pay fines of almost US$800,000
for labour rights violations at its melon farms in
Choluteca. Fyffes subsidiaries Suragroh and Melon
Export S.A. failed to pay overtime, bonuses, and social
security contributions, amid inadequate occupational
health and safety standards. Fyffes has declined to sign
a collective agreement despite years of organising by
workers, contesting the legal standing of the Sindicato
de Trabajadores/as Agrícolas (STAS) and postponing
negotiations.

Erosion of collective bargaining

Sri Lanka

In May 2025, more than 1,400 workers at NEXT’s
Katunayake factory in Sri Lanka were dismissed via
WhatsApp when the UK-based retailer closed the plant
without due notice. The notice cited rising operating
costs, despite the company reporting £1 billion in profits
in 2024. The factory employed 1,416 of the company’s
2,825 Sri Lankan workforce. Affected workers and their
union, the Free Trade Zones and General Services
Employees Union (FTZ & GSEU), have challenged
the unlawful closure, which breaches a collective
bargaining agreement signed in 2021 and renewed in
2023 – the only active CBA in the country’s clothing
industry.

Germany

In September 2025, Adidas left the sectoral collective
bargaining agreement in Germany by changing
its membership in the Federal Association of the
German Footwear and Leather Goods Industry from
full membership to membership without collective
bargaining obligations. Adidas had been criticised for
paying a meagre amount above agreed rates while
recording a gross profit margin of more than 50 per
cent. As a global company, the repercussions of this
decision are felt across the supply chains of every
country involved in production and manufacturing,
particularly those in Asia.

Netherlands

In 2025, ABU/NBBU, the employers’ organisations
representing temporary work agencies in the

Netherlands, discontinued the long-standing practice
of collective labour agreements with the Federatie
Nederlandse Vakbeweging (FNV), Christelijk Nationaal
Vakverbond (CNV), and De Unie unions. In these
negotiations, the unions aimed to secure better

working conditions for temporary workers, who have
long faced greater job insecurity and fewer protections.
ABU/NBBU relied on exceptions to Dutch labour law
that can only be secured through a collective labour
agreement. As negotiations grew challenging, the
employers chose to negotiate an agreement with

reduced protection and poorer working conditions with
a non-independent union with little or no membership
in the sector.
53

1 0 - Y E A R T R E N D S : C O U N T R I E S W H I C H V I O L A T E
THE RIGHT TO COLLECTIVE BARGAINING

Public transport workers took action in Cologne, Germany
ahead of collective bargaining negotiations. Germany is among
the 121 countries that violated the right to collective bargaining.

Photo: Sascha Thelen / DPA Picture-Alliance AFP

MOST VIOLATED RIGHTS IN THE WORLD
2026 ITUC GLOBAL RIGHTS INDEX 54

Blocked and excluded from labour protection

The right to freedom of association enables workers
to join and form independent trade unions to protect
their interests without coercion. Under international
labour agreements, ratified by 158 of 187 ILO members,
all workers have the right to freedom of association
and to organise. In 2026, 113 countries (75% of those in
the Index) excluded certain categories of workers from
this right, often based on their employment status –
unchanged from 2025.

Domestic workers, temporary workers, those in the

informal economy, and workers in the platform economy
often fall outside the scope of labour legislation. In
Burundi, the authorities refuse to register a union
formed by workers in the informal sector. Laws in
Pakistan do not guarantee the right to organise for
agricultural workers, domestic workers, home-based
workers or workers in the informal sector.

In 30 of the countries surveyed, including Jordan,
Mauritania, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, and Thailand, laws
prohibit migrant workers from establishing and joining
trade unions, restrict their ability to hold office in a trade
union, or infringe on their rights to engage in union
activities.

In Special Economic Zones, including in Bangladesh
and Haiti, workers are deprived of their right to freedom
of association. Certain categories of public employees
are denied the right by law in countries including Japan,
Morocco, Mozambique, Rwanda, the Bahamas and
Türkiye.

Union busting
The practice of union busting has seen more and more
workers blocked from forming and joining trade unions.
It encompasses activities undertaken by employers
to hinder the functioning of unions, and to disrupt or
prevent their formation or growth. ILO Convention No.
98 enshrines the right of workers’ organisations to
adequate protection against any acts of interference
by employers in their establishment, functioning, or
administration.

This year, dismissals and reprisals against workers
engaging in union activities have been documented in
Burundi, France, Iraq, Mexico, Peru, Serbia, and Spain.
Employer refusal to recognise legally formed unions
or interference in their activities has been reported in
Belgium, Estonia, Hungary, India, Ireland, Pakistan,
Poland, the Republic of Korea, Senegal, Sri Lanka and
Zimbabwe.

Haiti

In Haiti, the management of the multinational drinks
company Brana-Heineken has attacked workers’
rights and union freedoms through the harassment,
intimidation, and persecution of union leaders. One
month after the election of the new Union Executive
Committee, the company dismissed Jonas Louis, the
General Secretary of the Syndicat des Travailleurs de
la Brasserie Nationale d’Haïti (SYBTRANA) and Darline
Forstal, the union’s Communication Secretary, under the
alleged pretext of low performance.

Iran

In 2025, Iranian authorities upheld or intensified
disciplinary rulings against Kurdish teachers for their
trade union activities, including forced retirement,

dismissal, permanent removal from public service, and
exile. Omid Shah-Mohammadi and Majid Karimi, for
example, were expelled from the administrative system
and lost all state benefits, including pensions and

social security. These measures followed the May 2024
elections of the Sanandaj Kurdistan Teachers’ Union,
after which newly elected members were targeted with
what their unions believe were fabricated disciplinary
cases. Legal experts and unions have condemned the
rulings as politically motivated, disproportionate, and in
violation of Iran’s constitution.

Lebanon

In 2025, Elsy Moufarrej, a journalist and union
coordinator working at Murr Television (MTV) in
Lebanon, was reportedly dismissed for her union
activities as President of the Union of Journalists in
Lebanon (UJL), raising concerns about discrimination
against employees joining and participating in unions.
55

Slovakia

In September 2025, workers at Amazon Slovakia
established the trade union United Voice, affiliated
with TOZ (Technologický odborový zväz – Technology
Trade Union). When union representatives met with
management to discuss workplace concerns, the
company demanded a list of all employees who had
joined the union — a request that is not permitted

1 0 - Y E A R T R E N D S : C O U N T R I E S W H I C H E X C L U D E W O R K E R S
FROM THE RIGHT TO ESTABLISH OR JOIN A TRADE UNION

Trade unionists were able to mark May Day in Kenya despite
ongoing restrictions. The country is among the 113 that
violated the right to establish and join a trade union.

Photo: COTU-K

under Slovak law. In November, long-time employee
Ján Mizerák, who had worked at the Bratislava centre
for 12 years, was dismissed upon returning from
parental leave. TOZ has condemned the dismissal as
unlawful retaliation, reflecting widespread intimidation
of workers who exercise their right to organise.

MOST VIOLATED RIGHTS IN THE WORLD
2026 ITUC GLOBAL RIGHTS INDEX 56

Restrictions on access to justice

Access to justice and the due process of law are basic
principles of the rule of law. In their absence, people
are not able to have their voices heard, nor assert their
rights. In 2026, the global picture was unchanged from
2025: in 109 out of 151 (72%) countries, workers had
no or reduced access to justice, and due process was
denied.

In countries such as Hong Kong and Pakistan, union
activists face arbitrary arrest and unfair prosecution,
often on spurious grounds, such as national security or
terrorism. Workers seeking redress for rights violations
face barriers including the declining accessibility and
affordability of justice systems, complex procedures,
delays, and weak enforcement.

Côte d’Ivoire

In April 2025, in line with the law, teachers’ unions in
Côte d’Ivoire submitted a strike notice over demands
including better working conditions and quarterly

bonuses. Days before the strike, Ghislain Duggary Assy,
Communications Secretary of the Mouvement des
Enseignants pour la Dynamique de la Dignité (MEDD),
was arrested at home by masked men and questioned
by police without the presence of a lawyer. He was
sentenced to two years’ imprisonment for allegedly

organising collective action outside the prescribed legal
framework and “obstructing the operation of the public
service”. Other strike leaders were briefly detained, and
the government declared the strike illegal, threatening
sanctions, in breach of the nation’s constitution.

El Salvador

Since March 2022, El Salvador has maintained a “state
of exception” that has enabled the mass detention of
more than 85,000 people as part of the government’s
anti-gang campaign. Nayib Bukele’s emergency regime
has been criticised by human rights organisations. At
least two detained unionists have died in state custody,
including municipal worker José Leonidas Bonilla, and
union activist Franklin Gabriel Izaguirre.

Several trade unionists remain imprisoned, including
Sabino Antonio Ramos Cruz, executive committee
member of the workers’ union of the Panchimalco

Mayor’s Office; Dolores Victoria Almendares Alvarado,
General Secretary of the municipal workers’ union

SETRAMUC in Cuscatancingo; Giovanni Aguirre López,
municipal union member in San Salvador; and Misael
Itamir Gómez, union activist from Ciudad Delgado.

Cambodia

In Cambodia, global sportswear giant ASICS’s supplier
Wing Star Shoes fabricated criminal charges against
union leader Chea Chan, resulting in his violent

arrest and imprisonment for six months in early 2024.
Although he was released, the factory’s management
kept him confined at work and segregated from the
workforce. ASICS has refrained from taking a stand
on this matter. In November 2025, after months of
persistent work by Chan and the Cambodia Alliance
of Trade Unions (CATU) and their engagement with

ASICS through the Workers’ Rights Consortium and the
International Committee of Labour Lawyers Association
of Japan, Chan received US$50,000 in compensation,
back pay, and was reinstated as union leader.

Algeria

In March 2025, Ali Mammeri, President of the Syndicat
national des fonctionnaires du secteur de la culture
et des arts (SNFC), was arrested in Algeria without
a warrant, held incommunicado for four days, and
reported being beaten and forcibly undressed in an
attempt to extract confessions. He was sentenced to
15 years in prison in October 2025. Mammeri, while
exercising his right to strike and sharing information
with the ILO about government reprisals against unions
and exiled activists, had been accused of “glorifying
terrorist acts” and disseminating classified information
under Algeria’s broad anti-terror law. In February 2026,
an appeals court reduced the sentence to 10 years.
57

E I G H T - Y E A R T R E N D S : C O U N T R I E S W H I C H
RESTRICT ACCESS TO JUSTICE

© Marvin Recinos / AFP

In San Salvador, thousands protested against emergency powers
that allow arrests without a warrant. El Salvador is among the 72%
of countries where workers lack full access to justice.

Photo: Marvin Recinos / AFP

MOST VIOLATED RIGHTS IN THE WORLD
2026 ITUC GLOBAL RIGHTS INDEX 58

De-registration of unions

The right to official recognition through legal registration
is fundamental to the right to organise, since this is
the first step that workers’ organisations must take
to function efficiently and represent their members
adequately. The right to organise is enshrined in ILO
Convention No. 87, signed by 158 of 187 ILO member
states.

In 2026, however, workers in 113 out of 151 countries
in the Index faced legal obstacles to forming unions
and practical barriers imposed by the authorities that
impeded the registration of, de-registered, or arbitrarily
dissolved unions. This rate (75%) reflects a worsening in
conditions since 2025, reaching record levels.

In Belarus, Egypt, Hong Kong, Sudan, and Yemen,
the independent union movement has been wiped
out by the authorities through arbitrary dissolution and
illegal takeover. Workers have been deprived of their
fundamental freedom to form and join unions of their
own choosing.

In some countries, the state imposes, to various

degrees, a trade union monopoly, and the government
exercises control over the apparatus and functioning
of trade unions, as in China, Iraq, Laos, Libya, and
Vietnam.

Namibia
In Namibia, the Labour Commissioner refused to
register the Public Service Union of Namibia (PSUN)
as a representative of all workers as stipulated in its
constitution. This act was in breach of a 2025 court

ruling that the union should be recognised based on the
scope of workers defined in its constitution in matters
where it had applied to be recognised as the exclusive
bargaining agent.

Costa Rica
In the private sector in Costa Rica, forming a union has
become virtually impossible as the authorities hold full
discretion on registration. Deadlines for registration
can extend for months, generating confusion among
affiliates and compromising the relationship between
workers and employers. This allows employers to
restrict workers’ rights by failing to recognise unions.

Hong Kong
In July 2025, Hong Kong’s Trade Union Ordinance
was amended to further restrict union freedoms. The
changes mean unions can be denied registration on
undefined national security grounds without the right to
appeal beyond an expensive and inaccessible judicial
review. It permanently bars individuals convicted of
“endangering national security” from forming or leading
unions, grants sweeping investigative powers to the
Registrar of Trade Unions, and prohibits foreign funding
without approval.

Jordan
In July 2025, the Constitutional Court of Jordan

declared the Jordanian Teachers’ Syndicate Law No.
14 of 2011 and all its amendments unconstitutional,

rendering the law null and void and effectively removing
any legal basis for the existence and functioning of the
education workers’ union. The judiciary’s declaration of
illegality of a trade union forms part of a long-standing
struggle by teachers’ unions to perform their activities
without retaliation.
59

E I G H T - Y E A R T R E N D S : C O U N T R I E S W H I C H
IMPEDE THE REGISTRATION OF UNIONS

People rallied in Omdurman for peace and security.
Sudan’s independent trade union movement has been
effectively dismantled by state interference.

Photo: Ebrahim Hamid / AFP

MOST VIOLATED RIGHTS IN THE WORLD
2026 ITUC GLOBAL RIGHTS INDEX 60

Attacks on freedom of speech and assembly

The rights of workers and trade unions can only
be exercised within the framework of a system that
guarantees the effective respect of civil liberties and
freedoms, which are vital to a democratic society.
Freedom of assembly and freedom of opinion and

expression are fundamental to the exercise of freedom
of association.

In a record-high number of countries, workers and trade
unions were stripped of these fundamental freedoms
in 2026: 76 countries out of 151 (50%) violated workers’
rights to freedom of expression and peaceful assembly,
up from 68 in 2025. This represents the fourth

consecutive year of deterioration. Over the past year
alone, violations of free speech and assembly rose by
five percentage points, signalling an intensifying assault
on workers’ fundamental ability to organise collectively
and to protest unfair, unsafe and undignified working
conditions.

Permission for protests was arbitrarily denied in India,
Indonesia, Lesotho, and Madagascar, while in the
Republic of Korea, a legal amendment adopted
in January 2026 prohibits assemblies within 100

metres of the Presidential Office, effectively curtailing
demonstrations aimed at the government.

Togo

In October 2025, three trade union federations in
Togo – the Groupe des Syndicats Autonomes (GSA),
the Synergie des Travailleurs du Togo (STT), and the
Union Nationale des Syndicats Indépendants du Togo
(UNSIT) — called for a general assembly at the Agora
Senghor in Lomé. However, the assembly could not
take place due to direct interference by the Golfe
Prefecture authorities. On the day of the meeting,
union leaders were summoned by the Directorate of
Public Liberties and Political Affairs (DLPAP) and the
prefect and required to produce their union registration
certificates. The DLPAP justified these measures by
citing an alleged failure to inform the prefect or mayor
in advance, citing an amendment to the 2011 law on
freedom of assembly and public demonstrations. The
DLPAP stated that all union meetings must comply with
this requirement.

Bolivia

In December 2025, union-led nationwide strikes and
protests erupted across Bolivia after the government
moved to eliminate long-standing fuel subsidies, a
policy change that caused gasoline prices to nearly
double. Confrontations with security forces escalated
in La Paz as police used tear gas and rubber bullets to
disperse demonstrators, leading to violent clashes and
reports of arrests and injuries among protesters. The
unrest formed part of a broader wave of mobilisations
against the government’s austerity measures
and economic reforms, which unions and social

organisations argued would disproportionately affect
workers and low-income communities.

Indonesia

Workers and trade unionists in Indonesia were

regularly exposed to violence, the excessive use of
force, threats, and harassment during strikes, protests
and collective actions. During May Day 2025 and

subsequent mass demonstrations, police forces used
batons, water cannons and tear gas, resulting in injuries
and arrests, including among union members. During
nationwide protests in August and September 2025,
over 4,000 protesters in multiple cities were detained
and almost 1,000 charged for their participation in
demonstrations.
61

1 0 - Y E A R T R E N D S : C O U N T R I E S W H I C H D E N Y O R
CONSTRAIN FREEDOM OF SPEECH AND ASSEMBLY

Trade unions demonstrated in Jakarta for improved working conditions.
Indonesia is among the 50% of countries where workers face violence and
repression when exercising free speech and assembly.

Photo: Bay Ismoyo / AFP

MOST VIOLATED RIGHTS IN THE WORLD
2026 ITUC GLOBAL RIGHTS INDEX 62

Arbitrary arrests, detentions and imprisonment (civil liberties)

In 2026, workers in 75 countries faced arbitrary

arrest and prison sentences for exercising their union
freedoms. This level of persecution – involving about
50% of countries – is a record high for the Index, up
from 47% in 2025, signalling that trade unionists are
being persecuted in increasing numbers across the
world.

Angola
In August 2025, leaders of taxi drivers’ associations
were arrested in Angola as part of investigations into
protests against rising fuel prices. The arrested activists
were suspected of criminal association, incitement to
violence, attacks on traffic safety and terrorism. Among
the individuals arrested during the protests were

Francisco Paciente and Rodrigo Luciano Camba, the
President and Vice-President of the Angola National
Taxi Association (ANATA), Francisco Eduardo, leader
of the Angola Taxi Drivers Association (ATA), Rafael
Ginga Inacio, leader of the Angolan Community Taxi
Cooperative (CTCA), and Antonio Alexandre Freitas,
leader of the Freitas Taxi and Motorcyclist Cooperative
(CTMF).

Democratic Republic of the Congo
In November 2025, National President of the InterUnion
of the National Transport Office Armand Osase
was forcibly arrested and detained in the Democratic
Republic of the Congo for demanding back pay for
employees and managers of the national transport
office (Société Commerciale des Transports et des
Ports - SCTP). The office has been in conflict with its

workers for a long time over the non-payment of wages,
mismanagement, and arbitrary decisions without
respect for statutory authorities. In October, Osase’s
employment had been unlawfully terminated.

Republic of Korea

In February 2026, Korean police arrested 12 union

members and supporters, including Ko Jin-soo, leader
of the Sejong Hotel union affiliated with the KCTU

Service Federation, during a sit-in protest at the hotel
in Seoul. The protesters demanded the reinstatement
of workers dismissed during the Covid-19 pandemic.
Those arrested were charged with obstruction of
a business and refusal to vacate the premises. The
incident highlighted ongoing tensions between
management and organised labour, with workers
alleging harsh treatment.

Iraq

In February 2026, Iraqi police arrested three

demonstrators during a protest outside the Basra
Oil Company where workers demanded permanent
employment. The protests were attended by dozens
of former workers from Basra’s Fluid Catalytic Cracking
Unit (FCC) who had been mobilising for more than five
months after 350 workers were dismissed. The police
intervened to disperse the crowd and violently beat
several protesters. The oil ministry has approved the
reinstatement of the dismissed workers, conditional on
a formal request from the company. Reports indicate
that the company has replaced the dismissed workers
with foreign staff.
63

1 0 - Y E A R T R E N D S : C O U N T R I E S W H I C H A R B I T R A R I L Y
ARREST AND DETAIN TRADE UNION MEMBERS

Workers gathered for a May Day rally in Baghdad, Iraq, where strikes
were brutally repressed, tripartite consultations were not respected,
and dismissals and reprisals were used against union activists. Iraq is
among the countries that impeded civil liberties.

Photo: Ahmad Al-Rubaye / AFP

MOST VIOLATED RIGHTS IN THE WORLD
2026 ITUC GLOBAL RIGHTS INDEX 64

Workers reported incidents of violence in 48 countries
in 2026, nearly a third of those in the Index and a sharp
rise from 40 in 2025. Several union offices were raided
by police and state forces. The data further shows a sixpercentage-point
rise in violent attacks against workers,
pointing to an escalating pattern of intimidation and
repression targeting those who organise and defend
their rights. Where violence occurs, unionists cannot
operate freely, placing the rights and welfare of workers
at risk.

Attacks on union offices
India

In November 2025, seven unions in India were ousted
from their lawful premises by the Surat Municipal
Corporation (SMC). SMC teams took over the offices,
removed furniture, personal items, and files. The
vacated office spaces were reassigned to municipal
departments. Unions had been given notices to provide
documents to the SMC regarding recognition letters,
annual returns, membership details, and records of
office-bearers.

Palestine

In October 2025, Israeli forces raided the offices of
the Palestinian General Federation of Trade Unions
(PGFTU) in Nablus (West Bank), ransacking and

vandalising equipment, breaking doors, and detaining
staff.

Ukraine

In June 2025, Ukrainian government agents and

private security entered Trade Union House in Kyiv and
ordered the staff of the Federation of Trade Unions of
Ukraine (FPU) to leave immediately, blocking access
and taking control of the building and equipment. This
move to undermine the work of the FPU was the latest
in a string of government attacks on unions, including
the house arrest of FPU President Grygorii Osovyi.

Other attacks
South Africa

The South African Police Service (SAPS) and private
security personnel opened fire on striking workers at
the Centurion depot of Transpharm Pty. The strike had
been called by the National Union of Public Service and
Allied Workers (NUPSAW) in response to the company’s
unilateral decision to relocate operations from Tshwane
to Centurion and Isando depots.

Nepal

In April 2025, Nepali police attacked and injured

scores of teachers mobilised under the Confederation
of Nepalese Teachers (CNT). The protest, which was
conducted in a lawful and peaceful manner, had been
organised to call for permanent employment and fair
wages.

Far-right violence in Europe

In recent years, the rise of the far right in Europe has
increasingly translated into hostility directed at trade
unions and their members.

France

In November 2025, the media and journalists branch
of the French Confédération Française Démocratique
du Travail (CFDT) was targeted by far-right groups after
publishing a guide for journalists covering far-right
movements. CFDT reported a wave of online threats
directed at union members via email and social media,
illustrating the increasingly hostile digital environment
for union representatives and media professionals
defending democratic standards.

Evidence suggests that the presence of far-right
elected officials in local administrations creates a
chilling effect on union activity. According to a 2025
survey conducted by the CFDT Interco federation,
unionists in municipalities governed by far-right officials
can come under heightened pressure. Three unions
reported restrictions on union resources, while two
indicated the existence of a climate of fear or selfcensorship
among union representatives.

Violent attacks on workers
65

1 0 - Y E A R T R E N D S : C O U N T R I E S W H I C H E X P O S E
WORKERS TO PHYSICAL VIOLENCE

Israeli soldiers raided the offices of the Palestinian General
Federation of Trade Unions (PGFTU) in Nablus, detaining staff,
vandalising equipment and breaking doors. Palestine is among the
48 countries where workers faced violent attacks.

Photo: PGFTU

Italy

In January 2026, five bullet holes appeared in the
windows and shutters of the headquarters of the
Confederazione Generale Italiana del Lavoro (CGIL)
in Rome. The attack appeared to be a deliberate act
of intimidation, as no neighbouring premises were
damaged.

MOST VIOLATED RIGHTS IN THE WORLD
2026 ITUC GLOBAL RIGHTS INDEX 66

Indonesia

On 28 July 2025, Affan Kurniawan, an online

motorcycle taxi (ojol) driver, was run over and killed
by an armoured police vehicle during demonstrations
in Jakarta, prompting an investigation by the National
Commission on Human Rights. Video footage on social
media showed that an armoured vehicle ran over the
driver while the police were dispersing protesters near
a residential area. According to one of the residents
who witnessed the incident, the armoured vehicle kept
moving forward after it sped through the crowd and hit
the driver, who had fallen in the middle of the road.

Mexico

On 4 August 2025, Mario Machuca Sánchez, union
leader of the Confederación Revolucionaria de Obreros
y Campesinos (CROC), was shot and killed in the
parking lot of a car agency by assailants disguised as
delivery workers from a digital platform.

In October 2025, Noé Pérez Urquidi, leader of
the Confederación Autónoma de Trabajadores y

Empleados de México (CATEM) in Salina Cruz, Oaxaca,
was murdered by an armed commando in the parking
lot of the Plaza Pabellón shopping centre.

In July 2025, union leader César Contreras, who

served as General Secretary of the Unión Nacional de
Transportistas del Cambio (UNTRAC), was shot dead in
his office in Cancún. According to witnesses, two armed
men entered his office, shot him, and fled the area.

As the public faces and defenders of workers and their
rights, trade unionists are targets for violent attacks
by the state and employers. This can include threats
to life, harassment, verbal and physical attacks, and
assassinations.

Too often, there is no justice for victims or their
families. The killing of union leaders has a chilling
effect on union activism and fosters a climate of
impunity, which can leave workers defenceless.

In 2026, workers and trade unionists died for their
trade union activism in four countries: Angola,
Colombia, Indonesia, and Mexico.

Angola

In Angola, at least 29 people were killed in July 2025
during a three-day taxi drivers’ strike. The protests,
organised by the Angola National Taxi Association
(ANATA), were called to oppose a fuel price hike.
Hundreds of protesters were injured and at least 1,214
people were arrested in the context of violent clashes
between protesters and the police, vandalism, and
looting.

Colombia

In Colombia, Walberto Quintero Medina, VicePresident
of the CUT federation’s departmental
committee in Cesar and an Executive Committee
member of the SINALTRAINAL union for food industry
workers, was murdered on 28 April 2025. He was
shot at a public establishment in front of his friends
and died in hospital. Medina’s death joins a long list of
crimes committed against union leaders and human
rights defenders. Several SINALTRAINAL members
have been murdered in the past 20 years.

On 16 December 2025, trade unionist Campo
Elías Urrutía Vargas was murdered on his farm in

Tauramena. He was a member of the National Board of
Directors of Fedearroz, the national federation of rice
growers, and the National Executive of the Aguazul
committee of rice farmers.

Deaths
2026 ITUC GLOBAL RIGHTS INDEX 67

Protesters in Jakarta, Indonesia, demanded justice for Affan Kurniawan,
a motorcycle taxi driver run over and killed by an armoured police
vehicle during a trade union demonstration days earlier. Indonesia is
among the four countries where trade unionists were killed.

Photo: Juni Kriswanto / AFP
2026 ITUC GLOBAL RIGHTS INDEX 68

THE GLOBAL RIGHTS
INDEX EXPLAINED

1. DOCUMENTING VIOLATIONS

The ITUC documents violations of internationally

recognised collective labour rights by governments and
employers. The methodology is grounded in standards
of fundamental rights at work, in particular the right
to freedom of association, the right to collective

bargaining and the right to strike. Questionnaires are
sent to 340 national unions in 169 countries to report
violations of workers’ rights by indicating relevant
details. Regional meetings with human and trade

union rights experts are held where the questionnaire
is disseminated, explained and completed. The ITUC
contacts unions directly by phone and email when
it becomes aware of violations to confirm relevant
facts. Legal researchers analyse national legislation
and identify sections which do not adequately protect
internationally recognised collective labour rights.

2. CODING OF TEXT

The text under each country in the ITUC Survey is
read against a list of 97 indicators derived from ILO
Conventions and jurisprudence and representing
violations of workers’ rights in law and in practice.
A country receives a point for each time textual

information corresponds to an indicator. Each point has
the value of 1. After coding the text for a country, the
number of points is added up to arrive at a total score.

3. RATING COUNTRIES

Countries are rated in clusters from 1-5+ depending on
their compliance with collective labour rights. There
are five ratings, with 1 being the best rating and 5+ the
worst rating a country could get. The level of economic
development, size or location of the country is not
taken into account given that fundamental rights are
universal and workers in all parts of the world must
have access to them. A high-rated cluster means that
workers in the country have no right to their collective
voice due to government failure to guarantee rights.

The ITUC Global Rights Index depicts the world’s worst countries
for workers by rating 151 countries on a scale from 1 to 5+ on the
degree of respect for workers’ rights. Violations are recorded
each year from April to March. Countries where information on
the situation of workers’ rights is too scarce or cannot be verified
following our methodology were not included in this year’s analysis.
However, the ITUC is working towards covering all countries in the
ITUC Global Rights Index.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RATINGS 69

DESCRIPTION OF
THE RATINGS

1 SPORADIC VIOLATIONS OF RIGHTS

Collective labour rights are generally guaranteed.
Workers can freely associate and defend their rights
collectively with the government and/or companies and
can improve their working conditions through collective
bargaining. Violations against workers are not absent
but do not occur on a regular basis.

2 REPEATED VIOLATIONS OF RIGHTS

Countries with a rating of 2 have slightly weaker
collective labour rights than those with a rating of 1.
Certain rights have come under repeated attacks by
governments and/or companies and have undermined
the struggle for better working conditions.

3 REGULAR VIOLATIONS OF RIGHTS

Governments and/or companies are regularly
interfering in collective labour rights or are failing to
fully guarantee important aspects of these rights. There
are deficiencies in laws and/or certain practices which
make frequent violations possible.

4 SYSTEMATIC VIOLATIONS OF RIGHTS

Workers in countries with a rating of 4 have reported
systematic violations. The government and/or

companies are engaged in serious efforts to crush the
collective voice of workers, putting fundamental rights
under threat.

5 NO GUARANTEE OF RIGHTS

Countries with a rating of 5 are the worst countries in
the world to work in. While the legislation may spell out
certain rights, workers have effectively no access to
these rights and are therefore exposed to autocratic
regimes and unfair labour practices.

5+ NO GUARANTEE OF RIGHTS DUE TO
THE BREAKDOWN OF THE RULE OF LAW

Workers in countries with a rating of 5+ have equally
limited rights as countries with the rating 5. However,
in countries with the rating 5+, this is linked to

dysfunctional institutions as a result of internal conflict
and/or military occupation. In such cases, the country is
assigned the rating of 5+ by default.

5+ 5 4 3 2 1

N O G UA R A N T E E
O F R I G H T S D U E TO
T H E B R E A K D O W N O F
THE RULE OF LAW

N O G UA R A N T E E
OF RIGHTS

S Y S T E M AT I C
V I O L AT I O N S
OF RIGHTS

R E G U L A R
V I O L AT I O N S
OF RIGHTS

R E P E AT E D
V I O L AT I O N S
OF RIGHTS

S P O R A D I C
V I O L AT I O N S
OF RIGHTS
2026 ITUC GLOBAL RIGHTS INDEX 70

LIST OF INDICATORS

ITUC Global Rights Index
List of composite indicators

The methodology is grounded in standards
of fundamental rights at work, based on
international human rights law, and in particular
ILO Conventions Nos. 87 and 98, as well as
in the jurisprudence developed by the ILO
supervisory mechanisms1
.

A. Violations in law

1. Arrest, detention, imprisonment, charging and fining
of trade unionists

ILO Compilation of CFA decisions paras. 119-159
General Survey 1994 paras. 31-32
General Survey 2012 paras. 59-62

2. Violation of trade unionists’ basic freedoms
(freedom of movement; rights of assembly and
demonstration; freedom of opinion and expression)
ILO Compilation of CFA decisions paras. 190-201;
202-232; 233-268
General Survey 1994 paras. 35-39
General Survey 2012 paras. 59-62

3. Violation of trade unions’ and trade unionists’ right
to protection of their premises and property
ILO Compilation of CFA decisions paras. 275-292
General Survey 1994 paras. 40
General Survey 2012 paras. 59-62

4. Lack of guarantee of due process of law and/or
justice re violations nos. 1-3
ILO Compilation of CFA decisions paras. 160-189
General Survey 1994 paras. 29-32
General Survey 2012 paras. 60-62

B. Violations in practice

5. Killing or enforced disappearance of trade unionists
ILO Compilation of CFA decisions paras. 81-118
General Survey 1994 paras. 28-30
General Survey 2012 paras. 59-62

6. Committed against trade union leaders
Violation of (5) is committed against a union leader

7. Other types of physical violence
ILO Compilation of CFA decisions paras. 67-118;
275-298

General Survey 1994 paras. 28-30, 33; 35-39
General Survey 2012 paras. 59-62

I. Civil liberties

1. Committee of Experts on the Application of Conventions and Recommendations (CEACR), Committee on the Application of Standards (CAS) and Committee on
 Freedom of Association (CFA). See in particular:

• The Compilation of decisions of the Committee on Freedom of Association (https://www.ilo.org/dyn/normlex/en/f?p=NORMLEXPUB:70001:0::NO),
• ILO General Survey 1994 on Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining, 1994 (https://www.ilo.org/public/libdoc/ilo/P/09661/09661(1994-81-4B).pdf) and
• ILO General Survey 2012 on fundamental Conventions (https://www.ilo.org/wcmsp5/groups/public/---ed_norm/---relconf/documents/meetingdocument/
wcms_174846.pdf).

The list of indicators is adapted from David Kucera and Dora Sari. 2018. “New Labour Rights Indicators: Method and Trends for 2000-2015”, International Labour
Review (Accepted manuscript online: 9 MAR 2018).
71

8. Committed against trade union leaders
Violation of (7) is committed against a union leader

9. Threats, intimidation and harassment
ILO Compilation of CFA decisions paras. 67-118
General Survey 1994 paras. 28-30, 33
General Survey 2012 paras. 59-62

10. Committed against trade union leaders
Violation of (9) is committed against a union leader

11. Arrest, detention, imprisonment, charging and fining
of trade unionists

ILO Compilation of CFA decisions paras. 119-159
General Survey 1994 paras. 31-32
General Survey 2012 paras 59-62

12. Committed against trade union leaders
Violation of (11) is committed against a union leader

13. Infringement of the right to freedom of expression
ILO Compilation of CFA decisions paras. 233-268
General Survey 1994 paras. 35-39
General Survey 2012 paras. 59-62

14. Infringement of the right to freedom of assembly
and demonstration

ILO Compilation of CFA decisions paras. 202-232
General Survey 1994 paras. 34-39
General Survey 2012 paras. 59-62

15. Restrictions to the right to freedom of movement
ILO Compilation of CFA decisions paras. 190-201
General Survey 1994) para. 34
General Survey 2012 paras 59-62

16. Committed against trade union leaders
Violations (13) to (15) are committed against a union
leader

17. Attacks against trade unions’ and trade unionists’
premises and property

ILO Compilation of CFA decisions paras. 275-292
General Survey 1994 paras. 40
General Survey 2012 paras. 59-62

18. Severity

Widespread and/or systematic violation regarding
violations re (5)-(17)

19. Lack of guarantee of due process of law
and/or justice

ILO Compilation of CFA decisions paras. 160-189
General Survey 1994 paras. 29, 31-32
General Survey 2012 paras. 59-62

LIST OF INDICATORS
2026 ITUC GLOBAL RIGHTS INDEX 72

A. Violations in law

20. General prohibition of the right to establish and/or
join trade unions
General Survey 1994 paras. 12, 93
General Survey 2012 para. 51

21. Exclusion of specific categories of workers from the
right to establish and/or join trade unions
ILO Compilation of CFA decisions paras. 315-418
General Survey 1994 paras. 45-67

22. Restrictions on the freedom of choice of union
structure and composition
ILO Compilation of CFA decisions paras. 472-513;
546-560
General Survey 1994 paras. 79-90

23. Previous authorisation requirements for union
registration

ILO Compilation of CFA decisions paras. 419-444;
448-471

General Survey 1994 paras. 68-70
General Survey 2012 paras. 82-87; 89-90

24. Union monopoly

ILO Compilation of CFA decisions paras. 475-501
General Survey 1994 para. 91

25. Dissolution/suspension of legally functioning trade
unions

ILO Compilation of CFA decisions paras. 979-1013
General Survey 1994 paras. 180-188
General Survey 2012 para. 162

26. Provisions in law allowing for anti-union
discriminatory measures (dismissal, suspension,
transfer, downgrading)

ILO Compilation of CFA decisions paras. 1072-1185
General Survey 1994 paras. 199-210, 213

27. Lack of effective legal guarantees against anti-union
discriminatory measures
ILO Compilation of CFA decisions paras. 1134-1162
General Survey 1994 paras. 214-224
General Survey 2012 paras 166-167; 173-193

28. Provisions in law allowing for interference of
employers and/or public authorities
ILO Compilation of CFA decisions paras 1215-1219
General Survey 1994 paras. 225-234
General Survey 2012 paras. 194-196

29. Lack of effective legal guarantees against acts of
interference

ILO Compilation of CFA decisions paras 1187-1230
General Survey 1994 paras. 189-198
General Survey 2012 para. 163

30. Right to establish and/or join federations and
confederations and to affiliate with international
organisations of workers
ILO Compilation of CFA decisions paras. 1014-1071
General Survey 1994 paras. 189-198
General Survey 2012 para. 163

31. Lack of guarantee of due process of law
Lack of due process regarding violations (20)-(30)

B. Violations in practice

32. Serious obstacle to exercise the right to establish
and/or join trade unions

The vast majority of the population is excluded from
this right in practice
General Survey 1994 paras. 12, 93
General Survey 2012 para. 51

33. Exclusion of specific categories of workers from the
right to establish and/or join trade unions
ILO Compilation of CFA decisions paras. 315-418
General Survey 1994 paras. 45-67

34. Restrictions on the freedom of choice of union
structure and composition
ILO Compilation of CFA decisions paras. 472-513;
546-560
General Survey 1994 paras. 79-90

II. Right to establish and join unions
35. Previous authorisation requirements for union
registration

ILO Compilation of CFA decisions paras. 427-444
General Survey 1994 paras. 68-70
General Survey 2012 paras. 82-87; 89-90

36. Union monopoly

ILO Compilation of CFA decisions paras. 475-501
General Survey 1994 para. 91

37. Dissolution/suspension of legally functioning trade
union dismissal, suspension, transfer, downgrading)
ILO Compilation of CFA decisions paras. 1072-1185
General Survey 1994 paras. 199-210, 213

38. Anti-union discriminatory measures (including
dismissal, suspension, transfer, downgrading)
ILO Compilation of CFA decisions paras. 1072-1185
General Survey 1994 paras. 199-210, 213

39. Committed against trade union leaders
Violation (38) is committed against a trade union
leader

40. Lack of effective legal guarantees against anti-union
discriminatory measures

ILO Compilation of CFA decisions paras. 1134-1162
General Survey 1994 paras. 214-224
General Survey 2012 paras 166-167; 173-193

41. Acts of interference of employers and/or public
authorities

ILO Compilation of CFA decisions paras 1215-1219
General Survey 1994 paras. 225-234
General Survey 2012 paras. 194-196

42. Lack of effective legal guarantees against acts of
interference of employers and/or public authorities
ILO Compilation of CFA decisions paras 1187-1230
General Survey 1994 paras. 189-198
General Survey 2012 para. 163

43. Infringement of the right to establish and join
federations and confederations and to affiliate with
international organisations of workers
ILO Compilation of CFA decisions paras. 1014-1071
General Survey 1994 paras. 189-198
General Survey 2012 para. 163

44. Lack of guarantee of due process of law and/or
justice

Lack of due process regarding violations (32) - (43)

LIST OF INDICATORS 73
2026 ITUC GLOBAL RIGHTS INDEX 74

A. Violations in law

45. Infringement of the right to freely elect
representatives

ILO Compilation of CFA decisions paras. 585-665
General Survey 1994 paras. 112-121
General Survey 2012 paras. 101-107

46. Infringement of the right to freely draw up
constitutions and internal rules and administration
ILO Compilation of CFA decisions paras. 561-584;
666-679

General Survey 1994 paras. 108-111
General Survey 2012 paras. 100,112-114

47. Infringement of the right to freely organise and
control financial administration
ILO Compilation of CFA decisions paras. 680-715
General Survey 1994 paras. 108, 124-127
General Survey 2012 paras. 108-111

48. Infringement of the right to freely organise activities
and to formulate programmes
ILO Compilation of CFA decisions paras. 716-750
General Survey 1994 paras. 108-112, 124-127
General Survey 2012 paras. 100,112-114

49. Lack of guarantee of due process of law
Lack of due process regarding violations (45) - (48)

B. Violations in practice

50. Infringements of the right to freely elect
representatives

ILO Compilation of CFA decisions paras. 585-665
General Survey 1994 paras. 112-121
General Survey 2012 paras. 101-107

51. Infringement of the right to freely draw up
constitutions and internal rules and administration
ILO Compilation of CFA decisions paras. 561-584;
666-679

General Survey 1994 paras. 108-111
General Survey 2012 paras. 100,112-114

52. Infringement of the right to freely organise and
control financial administration
ILO Compilation of CFA decisions paras. 680-715
General Survey 1994 paras. 108, 124-127
General Survey 2012 paras. 108-111

53. Infringement of the right to freely organise activities
and to formulate programmes
ILO Compilation of CFA decisions paras. 716-750
General Survey 1994 paras. 108-112, 124-127
General Survey 2012 paras. 100,112-114

54. Lack of guarantee of due process of law and/or
justice

Lack of due process regarding violations (50)-(53)

III. Trade union activities
75

A. Violations in law

55. General prohibition of the right to collective
bargaining
General Survey 1994 paras. 12, 93
General Survey 2012 para. 51

56. Insufficient promotion of collective bargaining
ILO Compilation of CFA decisions paras 1318; 1322-
1326; 1517-1567; 1569-1578
General Survey 1994 paras. 235-236, 244-247
General Survey 2012 paras. 166-167, 198-199

57. Exclusion of specific categories of workers from the
right to collective bargaining
ILO Compilation of CFA decisions paras. 1239-1288
General Survey 1994 paras. 261-264
General Survey 2012 paras. 168; 209

58. Exclusion/restriction of subjects covered by
collective bargaining

ILO Compilation of CFA decisions paras. 1289-1312
General Survey 1994 para. 250

59. Compulsory arbitration imposed on collective
bargaining

ILO Compilation of CFA decisions paras. 1415-1419
General Survey 1994 paras. 254-259
General Survey 2012 paras. 246-250

60. Excessive requirements and/or lack of objective,
pre-established and precise criteria for the
determination/recognition of trade unions entitled to
collective bargaining (including infringements to the
rights of minority unions)
ILO Compilation of CFA decisions paras. 1342-1403
General Survey 1994 paras. 238-243
General Survey 2012 paras. 224-240

61. Acts of interference in collective bargaining
(including imposing the level of bargaining,
discouraging time-limits, offering better working
conditions through individual agreements)
ILO Compilation of CFA decisions paras. 1420-1470
General Survey 1994 paras. 244-249
General Survey 2012 paras. 198, 200, 208, 214, 222-
223

62. Violation of concluded collective agreements
ILO Compilation of CFA decisions paras. 1313-1321;
1327-1341
General Survey 1994 paras. 251-253
General Survey 2012 paras. 201-207

63. Infringements of the consultation with workers’
organisations

ILO Compilation of CFA decisions paras 1318; 1322-
1326; 1517-1567; 1569-1578
General Survey 1994 paras. 235-236, 244-247
General Survey 2012 paras. 166-167, 198-199

64. Lack of guarantee of due process of law
Lack of due process regarding violations (55)-(63)

B. Violations in practice

65. Serious obstacle to exercise the right to collective
bargaining

The vast majority of the population is excluded from
this right in practice

66. Insufficient promotion of collective bargaining
ILO Compilation of CFA decisions paras 1318; 1322-
1326; 1517-1567; 1569-1578
General Survey 1994 paras. 235-236, 244-247
General Survey 2012 paras. 166-167, 198-199

IV. Right to collective bargaining

LIST OF INDICATORS
67. Exclusion of specific categories of workers from the
right to collective bargaining

ILO Compilation of CFA decisions paras. 1239-1288
General Survey 1994 paras. 261-264
General Survey 2012 paras. 168; 209

68. Exclusion/restriction of subjects covered by
collective bargaining

ILO Compilation of CFA decisions paras. 1289-1312
General Survey 1994 para. 250

69. Compulsory arbitration imposed on collective
bargaining

ILO Compilation of CFA decisions paras. 1415-1419
General Survey 1994 paras. 254-259
General Survey 2012 paras. 246-250

70. Excessive requirements and/or lack of objective,
pre-established and precise criteria for the
determination/recognition of trade unions entitled to
collective bargaining (including infringements to the
rights of minority unions)

ILO Compilation of CFA decisions paras. 1342-1403
General Survey 1994 paras. 238-243
General Survey 2012 paras. 224-240

71. Acts of interference in collective bargaining
(including imposing the level of bargaining,
discouraging time-limits, offering better working
conditions through individual agreements)
ILO Compilation of CFA decisions paras. 1420-1470
General Survey 1994 paras. 244-249
General Survey 2012 paras. 198, 200, 208, 214, 222-
223

72. Violation of concluded collective agreements
ILO Compilation of CFA decisions paras. 1313-1321;
1327-1341

General Survey 1994 paras. 251-253
General Survey 2012 paras. 201-207

73. Absence of consultation with workers’ organisations
ILO Compilation of CFA decisions paras 1318; 1322-
1326; 1517-1567; 1569-1578
General Survey 1994 paras. 235-236, 244-247
General Survey 2012 paras. 166-167, 198-199

74. Lack of guarantee of due process of law and/or
justice

Lack of due process regarding violations (65)-(73)

2026 ITUC GLOBAL RIGHTS INDEX 76
77

A. Violations in law

75. General prohibition of the right to strike
General Survey 1994 paras. 152-153, 170-171
General Survey 2012. paras. 122, 140, 144, 159

76. Exclusion of specific categories of workers from the
right to strike (including overly broad definition of
essential services)
General Survey 1994 paras. 154-160
General Survey 2012 para. 127

77. Exclusion/restriction based on the objective and /or
type of the strike

ILO Compilation of CFA decisions paras. 758-786
General Survey 1994 paras. 165-168, 173
General Survey 2012 paras. 124-126, 142

78. Excessive prerequisites required for exercising the
right to strike

ILO Compilation of CFA decisions paras. 789-814
General Survey 1994 paras. 170-172
General Survey 2012 paras. 144-148

79. Compulsory arbitration imposed on strike action
ILO Compilation of CFA decisions paras. 816-823
General Survey 1994 para. 153
General Survey 2012 paras. 153-156

80. Provisions in law allowing for the suspension and/or
declaration of illegality of strikes by administrative
authorities

ILO Compilation of CFA decisions Paras. 907-913
General Survey 2012 para. 157

81. Infringements of the determination of minimum
services

ILO Compilation of CFA decisions paras 864-906
General Survey 1994 paras. 161-162
General Survey 2012 paras 136-139

82. Absence or inadequacy of compensatory
guarantees for lawful restrictions on the right to
strike

ILO Compilation of CFA decisions paras. 824-852
General Survey 1994 paras. 164
General Survey 2012 paras. 141

83. Interference of employers and/or authorities during
the course of strike action allowed under the
legislation (including back-to-work orders, hiring of
workers during a strike, requisitioning orders)
ILO Compilation of CFA decisions paras. 917-926;
927-929

General Survey 1994 paras. 163; 174-175
General Survey 2012 paras. 149-152

84. Excessive sanctions for the legitimate exercise of
the right to strike

ILO Compilation of CFA decisions paras. 951-976
General Survey 1994 paras. 176-178
General Survey 2012 paras. 157-160

85. Lack of guarantee of due process of law
Lack of due process regarding violations (75)-(84)

B. Violations in practice

86. Serious obstacle to exercise the right in practice
Vast majority of population is excluded from this
right in practice

87. Exclusion of specific categories of workers from the
right to strike (including overly broad definition of
essential services)
General Survey 1994 paras. 154-160
General Survey 2012 paras. 127, 129-135

 V. Right to strike

LIST OF INDICATORS
88. Exclusion/restriction based on the objective and/or
type of the strike

ILO Compilation of CFA decisions paras. 758-786
General Survey 1994 paras. 165-168, 173
General Survey 2012 paras. 124-126, 142

89. Excessive prerequisites required for exercising the
right to strike

ILO Compilation of CFA decisions paras. 789-814
General Survey 1994 paras. 170-172
General Survey 2012 paras. 144-148

90. Compulsory arbitration imposed on strike action
ILO Compilation of CFA decisions paras. 816-823
General Survey 1994 para. 153
General Survey 2012 paras. 153-156

91. Suspension and/or declaration of illegality of strikes
by administrative authorities

ILO Compilation of CFA decisions Paras. 907-913
General Survey 2012 para. 157

92. Infringements of the determination of minimum
services

ILO Compilation of CFA decisions paras 864-906
General Survey 1994 paras. 161-162
General Survey 2012 paras 136-139

93. Absence or inadequacy of compensatory
guarantees for lawful restrictions on the right to
strike

ILO Compilation of CFA decisions paras. 824-852
General Survey 1994 paras. 164
General Survey 2012 paras. 141

94. Interference of employers and/or authorities
during the course of strike action (including backto-work
orders, hiring of workers during a strike,
requisitioning orders)

ILO Compilation of CFA decisions paras. 917-929
General Survey 1994 paras. 163; 174-175
General Survey 2012 paras. 149-152

95. Excessive sanctions for the legitimate exercise of
the right to strike

ILO Compilation of CFA decisions paras. 951-976
General Survey 1994 paras. 176-178
General Survey 2012 paras. 157-160

96. Committed against trade union leaders
Violation (95) is committed against a trade union
leader

97. Lack of guarantee of due process of law and/or
justice

Lack of due process regarding violations (86)-(96)

2026 ITUC GLOBAL RIGHTS INDEX 78
About the ITUC

The International Trade Union Confederation (ITUC) is a confederation of
national trade union centres, each of which links trade unions in that particular
country. It is the global voice of the world’s working people. The ITUC represents
191 million workers in 169 countries and has 340 national affiliates.
ITUC

International Trade Union Confederation

info@ituc-csi.org
www.ituc-csi.org
Phone: +32 (0)2 224 0211

Boulevard du Jardin Botanique, 20,
1000 Brussels, Belgium

Publisher responsible in law:
Luc Triangle, General Secretary